TITLE: William Ouchi
William G. "Bill" Ouchi (born 1943) is an American professor and author in the field of business management. He is the Distinguished Professor of Management and Organizations, Stanford and Betty Sigoloff Chair in Corporate Renewal at the UCLA Anderson School of Management.
He was born and raised in Honolulu, Hawaii. He earned a B.A. from Williams College in 1965, and an MBA from Stanford University and a Ph.D. in Business Administration from the University of Chicago. He was a Stanford business school professor for 8 years and has been a faculty member of the Anderson School of Management at University of California, Los Angeles for many years.
Ouchi first came to prominence for his studies of the differences between Japanese and American companies and management styles.
His first book in 1981 summarized his observations. Theory Z: How American Management Can Meet the Japanese Challenge and was a New York Times best-seller for over five months.
His second book, The M Form Society: How American Teamwork Can Recapture the Competitive Edge, examined  various techniques implementing that approach.
Ouchi also came up with his three approaches to control in an organization's management:
In recent years Ouchi has turned his attention to the challenges posed for local schools by a top-down management style at the central office. He published an overview in 2003 in Making Schools Work. He chaired an education reform panel for Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, and some of his proposals are being considered currently. In the 1990s, he served as advisor and chief of staff to former Los Angeles Mayor Richard Riordan.
In 2009 his book, The Secret of TSL: The Revolutionary Discovery That Raises School Performance[1] was published which explores the revolutionary potential of reducing total student load, the number of students a teacher interacts with on a daily basis over the course of a semester.[2] Ouchi's premise has the potential to change school systems across the country as local principals control more of their own budgets to make creative hiring decisions aimed at reducing to eighty the total number of students each teacher interacts with on a given day. In the larger community, Ouchi serves on the Advisory Board of the U.S. Commission on Presidential Debates, on the Board of Trustees of the Japanese American National Museum, and on the Board of Directors of The Alliance for College-Ready Public Schools - an operator of inner-city charter schools in Los Angeles.
He previously served on the boards of Williams College, KCET Public Television, The California Community Foundation, Leadership Education for Asian-Pacifics, the Consumer Advisory Committee of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Walt Disney Concert Hall, and of the Harvard-Westlake School.
In the business community, he serves on the boards of directors of The Hilton Foundation,[3] AECOM, FirstFed Financial, Sempra Energy, and Water-Pik Technologies.

TITLE: David Allais
Dr. David Allais (born March 5, 1933) is an internationally recognized expert and inventor in the fields of bar coding and automatic identification and data capture.[1] As vice president and later president and chief executive officer of  Everett, Washington-based Intermec Inc. (NYSE:IN),[2] he built the company from a small startup into the leading manufacturer of bar code and printing equipment.[3] Prior to Allais' role at Intermec, he served as a manager for IBM. Most recently, Allais founded PathGuide Technologies, a Bothell, Washington-based developer of warehouse management systems for distributors.
Allais received a bachelor of science degree in mechanical engineering in 1954. He received a master of science degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Arizona in 1958 and a master of science degree in electrical engineering from  Stanford University in 1962. In 1965, Allais received a doctor of philosophy degree from Stanford University. In 1988, Allais was awarded the Association for Automatic Identification and Mobility (AIM) Richard R. Dilling Award as a preeminent contributor to bar code technology[4] and on October 16, 2009, Allais received the University of Arizona College of Engineering Lifetime Achievement Award.[5]
Allais is credited with creating five bar code symbologies: Code 39, Interleaved 2 of 5 (ITF), Code 11, Code 93 and Code 49. He is also named inventor on the following seven U.S. patents:
Allais developed Interleaved 2 of 5 in 1972 while at Intermec. It is a numeric only barcode used to encode pairs of numbers into a self-checking, high-density barcode format. The first digit is encoded in the five bars (or black lines), while the second digit is encoded in the five spaces (or white lines) interleaved with them. Two out of every five bars or spaces are wide (therefore 2 of 5). Applications include labeling corrugated shipping containers and identifying casino tickets.
In 1974, Allais and Ray Stevens, both at Intermec at the time, developed Code 39.[13] Code 39 is a barcode symbology that can encode uppercase letters (A through Z), digits (0 through 9) and a handful of special characters like the $ sign. Code 39 is broadly used particularly in the automobile industry and manufacturing.
Code 11 is a barcode symbology developed by Allais while at Intermec in 1977.In 1977 Intermec’s printing and reading technology limited the density of Code 39 to 9.4 characters per inch. For numeric applications, Codabar provided somewhat higher density (12 characters per inch). However, at the time, Intermec was contractually obligated to sell Codabar printers only to Monarch Marking Systems. Interleaved 2 of 5 was not a discrete symbology and thus could not be printed at a high enough density by our drum printers. It is used primarily in telecommunications. The symbol can encode any length string consisting of the digits 0-9 and the dash character (-).[14]
Code 93 is a barcode symbology developed by Allais in 1982 while at Intermec to provide a higher density and data security enhancement to Code 39. It is an alphanumeric, variable length symbology. Code 93 is designed to encode 26 upper case letters, 10 digits and 7 special characters:
In 1987 Allais, while at Intermec, developed Code 49 as the next evolution in bar code symbology to solve scanning large amounts of data on small objects. Although the practical uses of Code 49 would be limited, it set the stage for the later development of PDF417, a stacked linear bar code symbol that is widely used.
After receiving his master of science degree in mechanical engineering from the University of Arizona in 1958, Allais went on to serve in various engineering and engineering management positions at IBM in both California and New York state from 1958 to 1968.
In 1968, Allais was hired as the vice president of engineering by then Interface Mechanisms, now Intermec. From 1968 to 1988, he served in a number of executive management roles at Intermec as executive vice president, president & chief executive officer, chairman & chief executive officer, and chief scientist. 14 of those years at Intermec were spent as chief executive officer.
In 1989, Allais founded PathGuide Technologies and served as its president until 2006. PathGuide, formerly Applied Tactical Systems of Washington, develops, markets, and implements real time warehouse management systems and time and attendance systems.  PathGuide’s warehouse management systems make extensive use of bar code scanning and RF data communications. Allais currently serves as chairman of PathGuide.

TITLE: Michael Fincke
Edward Michael "Mike"/"Spanky" Fincke[1] (born March 14, 1967) is an American astronaut who formerly held the American record for the most time in space (381.6 days). His record was broken by Scott Kelly on October 16, 2015.   In January, 2019 Fincke was selected to fly on the first crewed flight of Boeing's CST-100 Starliner, making Fincke the first astronaut since John Young to fly on 3 different launch vehicles into orbit.
Mike Fincke was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, but considers its suburb Emsworth to be his hometown. He is a retired United States Air Force officer and an active NASA astronaut.  So far he served two tours aboard the International Space Station as a flight engineer and Commander. He flew on one Space Shuttle mission, STS-134 as a Mission Specialist.  Fincke is conversant in Japanese and Russian.[2] He is married to Renita Saikia, and together they have three children; son Chandra and daughters Tarali and Surya.[2]
Fincke logged just under 382 days in space, placing him second among American astronauts for the most time in space, and 20th overall. He completed nine spacewalks in Russian Orlan spacesuits and American EMUs.  His total EVA time is 48 hours and 37 minutes placing him 11th all time on the list of spacewalkers.
Fincke graduated from Sewickley Academy in Sewickley, Pennsylvania, in 1985. He attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology on an Air Force ROTC scholarship and graduated in 1989 with a Bachelor of Science degree  in Aeronautics and Astronautics as well as a Bachelor of Science degree in Earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences.[2] He then received a Master of Science degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University in 1990, and a second Master of Science degree in Planetary Geology from the University of Houston–Clear Lake in 2001.[2] He also attended El Camino College in Torrance, California, where he studied Japanese and Geology.[2]
Immediately after graduating from MIT in 1989, Fincke attended a summer exchange program with the Moscow Aviation Institute in the former Soviet Union, now Russia, where he studied Cosmonautics. After graduation from Stanford University in 1990, Fincke entered the United States Air Force where he was assigned to the Air Force Space and Missiles Systems Center, Los Angeles Air Force Base in California.  There he served as a Space Systems Engineer and a Space Test Engineer.  In 1994, upon completion of the U.S. Air Force Test Pilot School, Edwards Air Force Base in California, Fincke joined the 39th Flight Test Squadron, Eglin Air Force Base in Florida, where he served as a Flight Test Engineer working on a variety of flight test programs, flying the F-16 and F-15 aircraft. In January 1996, he reported to the Gifu Test Center, Gifu Air Base in Japan where he was the United States Flight Test Liaison to the Japanese/United States XF-2 fighter program. Fincke as of 2005[update] has over 800 flight hours in more than 30 different varieties of aircraft and holds the rank of colonel.[2] Fincke belongs to the Geological Society of America and the British Interplanetary Society.[2]
Fincke was selected by NASA in April 1996 to be an astronaut. He reported to the Johnson Space Center in August 1996. Having completed two years of training and evaluation, he was assigned technical duties in the Astronaut Office Station Operations Branch serving as an International Space Station Spacecraft Communicator (ISS CAPCOM), a member of the Crew Test Support Team in Russia and as the ISS crew procedures team lead.[2]
In July 1999, Fincke was assigned as backup crewmember for the International Space Station Expedition 4 crew. Additionally he served as a backup for the ISS Expedition 6 crew and is qualified to fly as a left-seat Flight Engineer (co-pilot) on the Russian Soyuz spacecraft. He was the commander of the second NASA Extreme Environment Mission Operations (NEEMO 2) mission, living and working underwater for 7 days in May 2002.[2]
Fincke was the space station science officer and flight engineer for ISS Expedition 9 from April 18 through October 23, 2004. Expedition 9 was launched from the Baikonur Cosmodrome, Kazakhstan aboard the Soyuz TMA-4 spacecraft, and docked with the International Space Station on April 21, 2004. Fincke spent six-months aboard the ISS continuing ISS science operations, maintaining station systems, and performing four spacewalks. The Expedition-9 mission concluded with undocking from the station and safe landing back in Kazakhstan on October 23, 2004. Fincke completed his first mission in 187 days, 21 hours and 17 minutes, and logged a total of 15 hours, 45 minutes and 22 seconds of EVA time in four spacewalks.[2]
Fincke was the back-up Commander for Expedition 13 and Expedition 16.[2]
Fincke was commander of Expedition 18. He arrived at the International Space Station aboard the Soyuz TMA-13 on October 14, 2008 with Cosmonaut Yuri Lonchakov and space flight participant Richard Garriott. While Richard Garriott was aboard, Fincke participated during his personal time (along with Yury Lonchakov, Gregory Chamitoff and Richard Garriott) in filming and starring in the first science-fiction movie made in space, Apogee of Fear. On April 8, 2009 Fincke, Lonchakov and space tourist Charles Simonyi returned to Earth aboard the TMA-13.
Replacing Fincke as commander of the space station was Gennady Padalka, whom Fincke served with on Expedition 9.
Fincke was a Mission Specialist on STS-134, which was his first and only flight on a Space Shuttle. Fincke made three spacewalks during the mission. He has completed 26 hours and 12 minutes of spacewalking time, bringing his total EVA time to 48 hours and 37 minutes.[2] This places him 11th all time on the list of spacewalkers.
On January 22nd, 2019 NASA announced that Fincke would fly on Boeing CST-100 Starliner’s Crew Flight Test currently scheduled for 2020. The Starliner’s Crew Flight Test will be the first time that the new spacecraft, which is being developed and built by Boeing as part of NASA’s Commercial Crew Program, is launched into space with humans on board. Fincke took the place of astronaut Eric Boe who was originally assigned to the mission in August 2018 but is now unable to fly due to medical reasons. Boe will replace Fincke as the assistant to the chief for commercial crew in the astronaut office at NASA’s Johnson Space Center. This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

TITLE: Jack Parsons (rocket engineer)
John Whiteside "Jack" Parsons (born Marvel Whiteside Parsons;[nb 1] October 2, 1914 – June 17, 1952) was an American rocket engineer and rocket propulsion researcher, chemist, and Thelemite occultist. Associated with the California Institute of Technology (Caltech), Parsons was one of the principal founders of both the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) and the Aerojet Engineering Corporation. He invented the first rocket engine to use a castable, composite rocket propellant,[1] and pioneered the advancement of both liquid-fuel and solid-fuel rockets.
Born in Los Angeles, Parsons was raised by a wealthy family on Orange Grove Avenue in Pasadena. Inspired by science fiction literature, he developed an interest in rocketry in his childhood and in 1928 began amateur rocket experiments with school friend Edward S. Forman. He dropped out of Pasadena Junior College and Stanford University due to financial difficulties during the Great Depression, and in 1934 he united with Forman and graduate student Frank Malina to form the Caltech-affiliated Guggenheim Aeronautical Laboratory (GALCIT) Rocket Research Group, supported by GALCIT chairman Theodore von Kármán. In 1939 the GALCIT Group gained funding from the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) to work on Jet-Assisted Take Off (JATO) for the U.S. military. After the U.S. entered World War II, they founded Aerojet in 1942 to develop and sell JATO technology; the GALCIT Group became JPL in 1943.
After a brief involvement with Marxism in 1939, Parsons converted to Thelema, the English occultist Aleister Crowley's new religious movement. In 1941, with his first wife Helen Northrup, Parsons joined the Agape Lodge, the Californian branch of the Thelemite Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.). At Crowley's bidding, he replaced Wilfred Talbot Smith as its leader in 1942 and ran the Lodge from his mansion on Orange Grove Avenue. Parsons was expelled from JPL and Aerojet in 1944 due to the Lodge's infamous reputation and his hazardous workplace conduct.
In 1945 Parsons separated from Helen after having an affair with her sister Sara; when Sara left him for L. Ron Hubbard, he conducted the Babalon Working, a series of rituals designed to invoke the Thelemic goddess Babalon to Earth. He and Hubbard continued the procedure with Marjorie Cameron, whom Parsons married in 1946. After Hubbard and Sara defrauded him of his life savings, Parsons resigned from the O.T.O. and held various jobs while acting as a consultant for Israel's rocket program. Amid the climate of McCarthyism, he was accused of espionage and left unable to work in rocketry. In 1952 Parsons died at the age of 37 in a home laboratory explosion that attracted national media attention; the police ruled it an accident, but many associates suspected suicide or murder.
Parsons's occult and libertarian writings were published posthumously, with Western esoteric and countercultural circles citing him as one of the most significant figures in propagating Thelema across North America. Although academic interest in his scientific career was negligible, historians came to recognize Parsons's contributions to rocket engineering. For these innovations, his advocacy of space exploration and human spaceflight, and his role in founding JPL and Aerojet, Parsons is regarded as among the most important figures in the history of the U.S. space program. He has been the subject of several biographies and fictionalized portrayals, including the television drama Strange Angel.
Marvel Whiteside Parsons was born on October 2, 1914, at the Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles.[2] His parents, Ruth Virginia Whiteside (c. 1893–1952) and Marvel H. Parsons (c. 1894–1947), had moved to California from Massachusetts the previous year, purchasing a house on Scarf Street in downtown Los Angeles. Their son was his father's namesake, but was known in the household as Jack.[3] The marriage broke down soon after Jack's birth, when Ruth discovered that his father had made numerous visits to a prostitute, and she filed for divorce in March 1915. Jack's father returned to Massachusetts after being publicly exposed as an adulterer, with Ruth forbidding him from having any contact with Jack.[4] His father later joined the armed forces, reaching the rank of major, and married a woman with whom he had a son, Charles, a half-brother Jack only met once.[5] Although she retained her ex-husband's surname, Ruth started calling her son John, but many friends throughout his life knew him as Jack.[6] Ruth's parents Walter and Carrie Whiteside moved to California to be with Jack and their daughter, using their wealth to buy an upscale house on Orange Grove Avenue in Pasadena—known locally as "Millionaire's Mile"—where they could live together.[7] Jack was surrounded by domestic servants.[8] Having few friends, he lived a solitary childhood and spent much time reading; he took a particular interest in works of mythology, Arthurian legend, and the Arabian Nights.[8] Through the works of Jules Verne he became interested in science fiction and a keen reader of pulp magazines like Amazing Stories, which led to his early interest in rocketry. At age 12 Parsons began attending Washington Junior High School, where he performed poorly—which biographer George Pendle attributed to undiagnosed dyslexia—and was bullied for his upper-class status and perceived effeminacy.[10] Although unpopular, he formed a strong friendship with Edward Forman, a boy from a poor working-class family who defended him from bullies and shared his interest in science fiction and rocketry, with the well-read Parsons enthralling Forman with his literary prowess. In 1928 the pair—adopting the Latin motto per aspera ad astra (through hardship to the stars)—began engaging in homemade gunpowder-based rocket experiments in the nearby Arroyo Seco canyon, as well as the Parsons family's back garden, which left it pockmarked with craters from explosive test failures. They incorporated commonly available fireworks such as cherry bombs into their rockets, and Parsons suggested using glue as a binding agent to increase the rocket fuel's stability. This research became more complex when they began using materials such as aluminium foil to make the gunpowder easier to cast.[10][11][12] Parsons had also begun to investigate occultism, and performed a ritual intended to invoke the Devil into his bedroom; he worried that the invocation was successful and was frightened into ceasing these activities.[13] In 1929 he began attending John Muir High School, where he maintained an insular friendship with Forman and was a keen participant in fencing and archery. After he received poor school results, Parsons's mother sent him away to study at the Brown Military Academy for Boys, a private boarding school in San Diego, but he was expelled for blowing up the toilets.[14]
The Parsons family spent mid-1929 touring Europe before returning to Pasadena, where they moved into a house on San Rafael Avenue. With the onset of the Great Depression their fortune began to dwindle, and in July 1931 Jack's grandfather Walter died.[15] Parsons began studying at the privately run University School, a liberal institution that took an unconventional approach to teaching. He flourished academically, becoming editor of the school newspaper, El Universitano, and winning an award for literary excellence; teachers who had trained at the nearby California Institute of Technology (Caltech) honed his attention on the study of chemistry.[16] With the family's financial difficulties deepening, Parsons began working on weekends and school holidays at the Hercules Powder Company, where he learned more about explosives and their potential use in rocket propulsion.[17] He and Forman continued to independently explore the subject in their spare time, building and testing different rockets, sometimes with materials that Parsons had stolen from work. Parsons soon constructed a solid-fuel rocket engine, and with Forman corresponded with pioneer rocket engineers including Robert H. Goddard, Hermann Oberth, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky, Willy Ley and Wernher von Braun. Parsons and von Braun had hours of telephone conversations about rocketry in their respective countries as well as their own research.[18][19][11][20]
Parsons graduated from University School in 1933, and moved with his mother and grandmother to a more modest house on St. John Avenue, where he continued to pursue his interests in literature and poetry.[21] He enrolled in Pasadena Junior College with the hope of earning an associate degree in physics and chemistry, but dropped out after one term because of his financial situation and took up permanent employment at the Hercules Powder Company.[22] His employers then sent him to work at their manufacturing plant in Hercules, California on San Francisco Bay, where he earned a relatively high monthly wage of $100; he was plagued by headaches caused by exposure to nitroglycerin. He saved money in hopes of continuing his academic studies and began a degree in chemistry at Stanford University, but found the tuition unaffordable and returned to Pasadena.[23]
In hopes of gaining access to the state-of-the-art resources of Caltech for their rocketry research, Parsons and Forman attended a lecture on the work of Austrian rocket engineer Eugen Sänger and hypothetical above-stratospheric aircraft by the institute's William Bollay—a PhD student specializing in rocket-powered aircraft—and approached him to express their interest in designing a liquid-fuel rocket motor.[26][27] Bollay redirected them to another PhD student, Frank Malina, a mathematician and mechanical engineer writing a thesis on rocket propulsion who shared their interests and soon befriended them.[28] Parsons, Forman, and Malina applied for funding from Caltech together; they did not mention that their ultimate objective was to develop rockets for space exploration, realizing that most of the scientific establishment then considered such ideas science fiction.[29] Caltech's Clark Blanchard Millikan immediately rebuffed them, but Malina's doctoral advisor Theodore von Kármán saw more promise in their proposal and agreed to allow them to operate under the auspices of the university's Guggenheim Aeronautical Laboratory (GALCIT).[30] Naming themselves the GALCIT Rocket Research Group, they gained access to Caltech's specialist equipment, though the economics of the Great Depression left von Kármán unable to finance them.[31]
The trio focused their distinct skills on collaborative rocket development; Parsons was the chemist, Forman the machinist, and Malina the technical theoretician. Malina wrote in 1968 that the self-educated Parsons "lacked the discipline of a formal higher education, [but] had an uninhibited and fruitful imagination."[32] Parsons and Forman who, as described by Geoffrey A. Landis, "were eager to try whatever idea happened to spring to mind", contrasted with Malina, who insisted on scientific discipline as informed by von Kármán. Landis writes that their creativity "kept Malina focused toward building actual rocket engines, not just solving equations on paper".[33] Sharing socialist values, they operated on an egalitarian basis; Malina taught the others about scientific procedure and they taught him about the practical elements of rocketry. They often socialized, smoking marijuana and drinking, while Malina and Parsons set about writing a semiautobiographical science fiction screenplay they planned to pitch to Hollywood with strong anti-capitalist and pacifist themes.[34]
Parsons met Helen Northrup at a local church dance and proposed marriage in July 1934. She accepted and they were married in April 1935 at the Little Church of the Flowers in Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Glendale, before undertaking a brief honeymoon in San Diego.[35] They moved into a house on South Terrace Drive, Pasadena, while Parsons got a job at the explosives manufacturer Halifax Powder Company's facility in Saugus. Much to Helen's dismay, Parsons spent most of his wages funding the GALCIT Rocket Research Group.[36] For extra money he manufactured nitroglycerin in their home, constructing a laboratory on their front porch. At one point he pawned Helen's engagement ring, and he often asked her family for loans.[37]
Malina recounted that "Parsons and Forman were not too pleased with an austere program that did not include at least the launching of model rockets",[32] but the Group reached the consensus of developing a working static rocket motor before embarking on more complex research. They contacted liquid-fuel rocket pioneer Robert H. Goddard and he invited Malina to his facility in Roswell, New Mexico, but he was not interested in cooperating—reticent about sharing his research and having been subjected to widespread derision for his work in rocketry.[38] They were instead joined by Caltech graduate students Apollo M. O. "Amo" Smith, Carlos C. Wood, Mark Muir Mills, Fred S. Miller, William C. Rockefeller, and Rudolph Schott; Schott's pickup truck transported their equipment.[39] Their first liquid-fuel motor test took place near the Devil's Gate Dam in the Arroyo Seco on Halloween 1936.[40][41] Parsons's biographer John Carter described the layout of the contraption as showing[42]
oxygen flowing from one side, with methyl alcohol (the fuel) and nitrogen flowing from the other side. Water cooled the rocket during the burn. Thrust pulled down a spring which measured force. The deflection of the spring measured the force applied to it. A small diamond tip on the apparatus scratched a glass plate to mark the furthest point of deflection. The rocket and mount were protected by sandbags, with the tanks (and the experimenters) well away from it.Three attempts to fire the rocket failed; on the fourth the oxygen line accidentally ignited and perilously billowed fire at the Group, but they viewed this experience as formative.[43] They continued their experiments throughout the last quarter of 1936; after the final test was successfully completed in January 1937 von Kármán agreed that they could perform future experiments at an exclusive rocket testing facility on campus.[44][45][46]
In April 1937 Caltech mathematician Qian Xuesen (a Chinese citizen) joined the Group. Several months later Weld Arnold, a Caltech laboratory assistant who worked as the Group's official photographer, also joined. The main reason for Arnold's appointment to this position was his provision of a donation to the Group on behalf of an anonymous benefactor.[47] They became well known on campus as the "Suicide Squad" for the dangerous nature of some of their experiments and attracted attention from the local press.[48] Parsons himself gained further media publicity when he appeared as an expert explosives witness in the trial of Captain Earl Kynette, the head of police intelligence in Los Angeles who was accused of conspiring to set a car bomb in the attempted murder of private investigator Harry Raymond, a former LAPD detective who was fired after whistleblowing against police corruption. When Kynette was convicted largely on Parsons' testimony, which included his forensic reconstruction of the car bomb and its explosion, his identity as an expert scientist in the public eye was established despite his lack of a university education.[49][50] While working at Caltech, Parsons was admitted to evening courses in chemistry at the University of Southern California (USC), but distracted by his GALCIT workload he attended sporadically and received unexceptional grades.[51]
By early 1938 the Group had made their static rocket motor, which originally burned for three seconds, run for over a minute.[52][53] In May that year, Parsons was invited by Forrest J Ackerman to lecture on his rocketry work at Chapter Number 4 of the Los Angeles Science Fiction League (LASFL). Although he never joined the society, he occasionally attended their talks, on one occasion conversing with a teenage Ray Bradbury.[54] Another scientist to become involved in the GALCIT project was Sidney Weinbaum, a Jewish refugee from Europe who was a vocal Marxist; he led Parsons, Malina, and Qian in their creation of a largely secretive communist discussion group at Caltech, which became known as Professional Unit 122 of the Pasadena Communist Party. Although Parsons subscribed to the People's Daily World and joined the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), he refused to join the American Communist Party, causing a break in his and Weinbaum's friendship.[55] This, coupled with the need to focus on paid employment, led to the disintegration of much of the Rocket Research Group, leaving only its three founding members by late 1938.[56]
In January 1939 John and Frances Baxter, a brother and sister who had befriended Jack and Helen Parsons, took Jack to the Church of Thelema on Winona Boulevard, Hollywood, where he witnessed the performance of The Gnostic Mass. Celebrants of the church had included Hollywood actor John Carradine and gay rights activist Harry Hay. Parsons was intrigued, having already heard of Thelema's founder and Outer Head of the Ordo Templi Orientis (O.T.O.), Aleister Crowley, after reading a copy of Crowley's text Konx om Pax (1907).
Parsons was introduced to leading members Regina Kahl, Jane Wolfe, and Wilfred Talbot Smith at the mass. Feeling both "repulsion and attraction" for Smith, Parsons continued to sporadically  attend the Church's events for a year.[57] He continued to read Crowley's works, which increasingly interested him, and encouraged Helen to read them.[58] Parsons came to believe in the reality of Thelemic magick as a force that could be explained through quantum physics.[58] He tried to interest his friends and acquaintances in Thelema, taking science fiction writers Jack Williamson and Cleve Cartmill to a performance of The Gnostic Mass. Although they were unimpressed, Parsons was more successful with  Grady Louis McMurtry, a young Caltech student he had befriended, as well as McMurtry's fiancée Claire Palmer, and Helen's sister Sara "Betty" Northrup.[59]
Jack and Helen were initiated into the Agape Lodge, the renamed Church of Thelema, in February 1941. Parsons adopted the Thelemic motto of Thelema Obtenteum Proedero Amoris Nuptiae, a Latin mistranslation of "The establishment of Thelema through the rituals of love". The initials of this motto spelled out T.O.P.A.N., also serving as the declaration "To Pan".[60] Commenting on Parsons' errors of translation, in jest Crowley said that "the motto which you mention is couched in a language beyond my powers of understanding".[61] Parsons also adopted the Thelemic title Frater T.O.P.A.N—with T.O.P.A.N represented in Kabbalistic numerology as 210—the name with which he frequently signed letters to occult associates—while Helen became known as Soror Grimaud.[62] Smith wrote to Crowley saying that Parsons was "a really excellent man ... He has an excellent mind and much better intellect than myself ... JP is going to be very valuable".[63] Wolfe wrote to German O.T.O. representative Karl Germer that Parsons was "an A1 man ... Crowleyesque in attainment as a matter of fact", and mooted Parsons as a potential successor to Crowley as Outer Head of the Order.[64] Crowley concurred with such assessments, informing Smith that Parsons "is the most valued member of the whole Order, with no exception!"[61]
At von Kármán's suggestion, Frank Malina approached the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) Committee on Army Air Corps Research to request funding for research into what they referred to as "jet propulsion", a term chosen to avoid the stigma attached to rocketry. The military were interested in jet propulsion as a means of getting aircraft quickly airborne where there was insufficient room for a full-length runway, and gave the Rocket Research Group $1,000 to put together a proposal on the feasibility of Jet-Assisted Take Off (JATO) by June 1939, making Parsons et al. the first U.S. government-sanctioned rocket research group. Since their formation in 1934, they had also performed experiments involving model, black powder motor-propelled multistage rockets. In a research paper submitted to the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), Parsons reported these rockets reaching velocities of 4,875 miles per hour, thereby demonstrating the potential of solid fuels to be more effective than the liquid types primarily preferred by researchers such as Goddard. In light of this progress, Caltech and the GALCIT Group received an additional $10,000 rocketry research grant from the AIAA.[65]
Although a quarter of their funding went to repairing damage to Caltech buildings caused by their experiments, in June 1940 they submitted a report to the NAS in which they showed the feasibility of the project for the development of JATO and requested $100,000 to continue; they received $22,000.[66] Now known as GALCIT Project Number 1, they continued to be ostracized by other Caltech scientists who grew increasingly irritated by their accidents and noise pollution, and were forced to relocate their experiments back to the Arroyo Seco, at a site with unventilated, corrugated iron sheds that served as both research facilities and administrative offices. It was here that JPL would be founded.[67] Parsons and Forman's rocket experiments were the cover story of the August 1940 edition of Popular Mechanics, in which the pair discussed the prospect of rockets being able to ascend above Earth's atmosphere and orbit around it for research purposes, as well as reaching the Moon.[68]
For the JATO project, they were joined by Caltech mathematician Martin Summerfield and 18 workers supplied by the Works Progress Administration. Former colleagues like Qian were prevented from returning to the project by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), who ensured the secrecy of the operation and restricted the involvement of foreign nationals and political extremists.[69] The FBI was satisfied that Parsons was not a Marxist but were concerned when Thelemite friend Paul Seckler used Parsons' gun in a drunken car hijacking, for which Seckler was imprisoned in San Quentin State Prison for two years. Englishman George Emerson replaced Arnold as the Group's official photographer.[70]
The Group's aim was to find a replacement for black-powder rocket motors—units consisting of charcoal, sulfur and potassium nitrate with a binding agent. The mixture was unstable and there were frequent explosions damaging military aircraft.[71] The solid JATO fuel invented by Parsons consisted of amide, corn starch, and ammonium nitrate bound together in the JATO unit with glue and blotting paper. It was codenamed GALCIT-27, implying the previous invention of 26 new fuels. The first JATO tests using an ERCO Ercoupe plane took place in late July 1941; though they aided propulsion, the units frequently exploded and damaged the aircraft. Parsons theorized that this was because the ammonium nitrate became dangerously combustible following overnight storage, during which temperature and consistency changes had resulted in a chemical imbalance. Parsons and Malina accordingly devised a method in which they would fill the JATOs with the fuel in the early mornings shortly before the tests, enduring sleep deprivation to do so. On August 21, 1941, Navy Captain Homer J. Boushey, Jr.—watched by Clark Millikan and William F. Durand—piloted the JATO-equipped Ercoupe at March Air Force Base in Moreno Valley, California. It proved a success and reduced takeoff distance by 30%, but one of the JATOs partially exploded.[72] Over the following weeks 62 further tests took place, and the NAS increased their grant to $125,000. During a series of static experiments, an exploding JATO did significant damage to the rear fuselage of an Ercoupe; one observer optimistically noted that "at least it wasn't a big hole", but necessary repairs delayed their efforts.[73]
The military ordered a flight test using liquid rather than solid fuel in early 1942. Upon the United States' entry into the Second World War in December 1941, the Group realized they could be drafted directly into military service if they failed to provide viable JATO technology for the military. Informed by their left-wing politics, aiding the war effort against Nazi Germany and the Axis powers was as much of a moral vocation to Parsons, Forman and Malina as it was a practical one. Parsons, Summerfield and the GALCIT workers focused on the task and found success with a combination of gasoline with red fuming nitric acid as its oxidizer; the latter, suggested by Parsons, was an effective substitute for liquid oxygen.[71][74] The testing of this fuel resulted in another calamity, when the testing rocket motor exploded; the fire, containing iron shed fragments and shrapnel, inexplicably left the experimenters unscathed. Malina solved the problem by replacing the gasoline with aniline, resulting in a successful test launch of a JATO-equipped A-20A plane at the Muroc Auxiliary Air Field in the Mojave Desert. It provided five times more thrust  than GALCIT-27, and again reduced takeoff distance by 30%; Malina wrote to his parents that "We now have something that really works and we should be able to help give the Fascists hell!"[75]
The Group then agreed to produce and sell 60 JATO engines to the United States Army Air Corps. To do so they formed the Aerojet Engineering Corporation in March 1942, in which Parsons, Forman, Malina, von Kármán, and Summerfield each invested $250, opening their offices on Colorado Boulevard and bringing in Amo Smith as their engineer. Andrew G. Haley was recruited by von Kármán as their lawyer and treasurer. Although Aerojet was a for-profit operation that provided technology for military means, the founders' mentality was rooted in the ideal of using rockets for peaceful space exploration. As Haley recounted von Kármán requesting: "we will make the rockets—you must make the corporation and obtain the money. Later on you will have to see that we all behave well in outer space."[76]
Despite these successes, Parsons, the project engineer of Aerojet's Solid Fuel Department, remained motivated to address the malfunctions observed during the Ercoupe tests. In June 1942, assisted by Mills and Miller, he focused his attention on developing an effective method of restricted burning when using solid rocket fuel, as the military demanded JATOs that could provide over 100 pounds of thrust without any risk of exploding. Although solid fuels such as GALCIT-27 were more storable than their liquid counterparts, they were disfavored for military JATO use as they provided less immediate thrust and did not have the versatility of being turned on and off mid-flight. Parsons tried to resolve GALCIT-27's stability issue with GALCIT-46, which replaced the former's ammonium nitrate with guanidine nitrate. To avoid the problems seen with ammonium nitrate, he had GALCIT-46 cooled and then heated prior to testing. When it failed the test, he realized that the fuel's binding black powders rather than the oxidizers had resulted in their instability, and in June that year had the idea of using liquid asphalt as an appropriate binding agent with potassium perchlorate as oxidizer.[40]
Malina recounted that Parsons was inspired to use asphalt by the ancient incendiary weapon Greek fire; in a 1982 talk for the International Association of Astronomical Artists Captain Boushey stated that Parsons experienced an epiphany after watching workers using molten asphalt to fix tiles onto a roof. Known as GALCIT-53, this fuel proved to be significantly more stable than the Group's earlier concoctions, fulfilling Parsons' aim of creating a restricted-burn rocket fuel inside a castable container, and providing a thrust 427% more powerful than that of GALCIT-27. This set a precedent which according to his biographer John Carter "changed the future of rocket technology": the thermoplastic asphalt casting was durable in all climates, allowing for mass production and indefinite storage and transforming solid-fuel agents into a safe and viable form of rocket propulsion. Plasticized variants of Parsons' solid-fuel design invented by JPL's Charles Bartley were later used by NASA in Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters and by the Strategic Air Command in Polaris, Poseidon and Minuteman intercontinental ballistic missiles.[40][1][77]
Aerojet's first two contracts were from the U.S. Navy; the Bureau of Aeronautics requested a solid-fuel JATO and Wilbur Wright Field requested a liquid-fuel unit. The Air Corps had requested two thousand JATOs from Aerojet by late 1943, committing $256,000 toward Parsons' solid-fuel type. Despite this drastically increased turnover, the company continued to operate informally and remained intertwined with the GALCIT project. Caltech astronomer Fritz Zwicky was brought in as head of the company's research department. Haley replaced von Kármán as Aerojet chairman and imposed payroll cuts instead of reducing JATO output; the alternative was to cut staff numbers while maintaining more generous salaries, but Haley's priority was Aerojet's contribution to the war effort. Company heads including Parsons were exempted from this austerity, drawing the ire of many personnel.[78][79]
Parsons' newfound credentials and financial security gave him the opportunity to travel more widely throughout the U.S. as an ambassador for Aerojet, meeting with other rocket enthusiasts. In New York he met with Karl Germer, the head of the O.T.O. in North America and in Washington, D.C. he met Poet Laureate Joseph Auslander, donating some of Crowley's poetry books to the Library of Congress.[80] He also became a regular at the Mañana Literary Society, which met in Laurel Canyon at the home of Parsons' friend Robert A. Heinlein and included science fiction writers including Cleve Cartmill, Jack Williamson, and Anthony Boucher. Among Parsons' favorite works of fiction was Williamson's Darker Than You Think, a novelette published in the fantasy magazine Unknown in 1940, which inspired his later occult workings. Boucher used Parsons as a partial basis for the character of Hugo Chantrelle in his murder mystery Rocket to the Morgue (1942).[81]
Helen went away for a period in June 1941, during which Parsons, encouraged to do so by the sexually permissive attitude of the O.T.O., began a sexual relationship with her 17-year-old sister, Sara. Upon Helen's return, Sara asserted that she was Parsons' new wife, and Parsons himself admitted that he found Sara more sexually attractive than Helen.[82] Conflicted in her feelings, Helen sought comfort in Smith and began a relationship with him that lasted for the rest of his life; the four remained friends.[83] The two couples, along with a number of other Thelemites (some of whom with their children), moved to 1003 South Orange Grove Avenue, an American Craftsman-style mansion. They all contributed to the rent of $100 a month and lived communally in what replaced Winona Boulevard as the new base of the Agape Lodge, maintaining an allotment and slaughtering their own livestock for meat as well as blood rituals.[84] Parsons decorated his new room with a copy of the Stele of Revealing, a statue of Pan, and his collection of swords and daggers. He converted the garage and laundry room into a chemical laboratory and often held science fiction discussion meetings in the kitchen, and entertained the children with hunts for fairies in the 25-acre garden.[85]
—Excerpt from an untitled poem published in Parsons' ill-fated Oriflamme journal[86]
Although there were arguments among the commune members, Parsons remained dedicated to Thelema. He gave almost all of his salary to the O.T.O. while actively seeking out new members—including Forman—and financially supported Crowley in London through Germer.[87] Parsons' enthusiasm for the Lodge quickly began to impact on his professional life. He frequently appeared at Aerojet hungover and sleep-deprived from late nights of Lodge activities, and invited many of his colleagues to them, drawing the ire of staff who previously tolerated Parsons' occultism as harmless eccentricity; known to von Kármán as a "delightful screwball", he was frequently observed reciting Crowley's poem "Hymn to Pan" in an ecstatic manner compared to the preaching of Billy Graham during rocket tests—and on request at parties to their great amusement. They disapproved of his hesitancy to separate his vocations; Parsons became more rigorously engaged in Aerojet's day-to-day business in an effort to resolve this weariness, but the Agape Lodge soon came under investigation by both the Pasadena Police Department and the FBI. Both had received allegations of a "black magic cult" involved in sexual orgies; one complainant was a 16-year-old boy who said that he was raped by lodge members, while neighbors reported a ritual involving a naked pregnant woman jumping through fire. After Parsons explained that the Lodge was simply "an organization dedicated to religious and philosophical speculation", neither agency found evidence of illegal activity and came to the conclusion that the Lodge constituted no threat to national security.[88] Having been a long-term heavy user of alcohol and marijuana, Parsons now habitually used cocaine, amphetamines, peyote, mescaline, and opiates as well.[89][53] He continued to have sexual relations with multiple women, including McMurtry's fiancée Claire. When Parsons paid for her to have an abortion, McMurtry was angered and their friendship broke down.[90]
Crowley and Germer wanted to see Smith removed as head of the Agape Lodge, believing that he had become a bad influence on its members. Parsons and Helen wrote to them to defend their mentor but Germer ordered him to stand down; Parsons was appointed as temporary head of the Lodge.[91] Some veteran Lodge members disliked Parsons' influence, concerned that it encouraged excessive sexual polyandry that was religiously detrimental, but his charismatic orations at Lodge meetings assured his popularity among the majority of followers. Parsons soon created the Thelemite journal Oriflamme, in which he published his own poetry, but Crowley was unimpressed—particularly due to Parsons' descriptions of drug use—and the project was soon shelved.[92] Helen gave birth to Smith's son in April; the child was named Kwen Lanval Parsons.[93] Smith and Helen left with Kwen for a two-room cabin in Rainbow Valley in May.[94] Concurrently in England, Crowley undertook an astrological analysis of Smith's birth chart and came to the conclusion that Smith was the incarnation of a god, greatly altering his estimation of him. Smith remained skeptical as Crowley's analysis was seemingly deliberately devised in Parsons' favor, encouraging Smith to step down from his role in the Agape Lodge and instructing him to take a meditative retreat.[95] Refusing to take orders from Germer any more, Smith resigned from the O.T.O. Parsons—who remained sympathetic and friendly to Smith during the conflict and was weary of Crowley's "appalling egotism, bad taste, bad judgement, and pedanticism"—ceased lodge activities and resigned as its head, but withdrew his resignation after receiving a pacifying letter from Crowley.[96]
By mid-1943 Aerojet was operating on a budget of $650,000. The same year Parsons and von Kármán traveled to Norfolk, Virginia on the invitation of Secretary of the Navy Frank Knox to consult on a new JATO contract for the U.S. Navy. Though JATOs were being mass-produced for military applications, JATO-propelled aircraft could not "keep up" with larger, bomber planes taking off from long aircraft carrier runways—which made Aerojet's industry at risk of becoming defunct.[97] Parsons demonstrated the efficacy of the newer JATOs to solve this issue by equipping a Grumman plane with solid-fuel units; its assisted takeoff from the USS Charger was successful, but produced smoke containing a noxious, yellow-colored residue. The Navy guaranteed Parsons a contract on the condition that this residue was removed; this led to the invention of Aeroplex, a technology for smokeless vapor trails developed at Aerojet by Parsons.[98]
As the U.S. became aware that Nazi Germany had developed the V-2 rocket, the military—following recommendations from von Kármán based upon research using British intelligence—placed a renewed impetus on its own rocket research, reinstating Qian to the GALCIT project. They gave the Group a $3 million grant to develop rocket-based weapons, and the Group was expanded and renamed the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL).[99] By this point the Navy were ordering 20,000 JATOs a month from Aerojet, and in December 1944 Haley negotiated for the company to sell 51% of its stock to the General Tire and Rubber Company to cope with the increased demand. Aerojet's Caltech-linked employees—including Zwicky, Malina and Summerfield—would only agree to the sale on the condition that Parsons and Forman were removed from the company, viewing their occult activities as disreputable. JPL historian Erik M. Conway also attributes Parsons' expulsion to more practical concerns: he "still wanted to work in the same way as he'd done in his backyard, instinctive and without regard for safety".[71] Parsons and Forman were unfazed, informing Haley of their prediction that the rocket industry would become obsolete in the postwar age and seeing more financial incentive in starting a chain of laundromats. Haley persuaded them to sell their stock, resulting in Parsons leaving the company with $11,000.[100] With this money he bought the lease to 1003, which had come to be known as "the Parsonage" after him.[101]
Now disassociated from JPL and Aerojet, Parsons and Forman founded the Ad Astra Engineering Company, under which Parsons founded the chemical manufacturing Vulcan Powder Company.[102] Ad Astra was subject to an FBI investigation under suspicion of espionage when security agents from the Manhattan Project discovered that Parsons and Forman had procured a chemical used in a top secret project for a material known only as x-metal, but they were later acquitted of any wrongdoing.[103] Parsons continued to financially support Smith and Helen, although he asked for a divorce from her and ignored Crowley's commands by welcoming Smith back to the Parsonage when his retreat was finished.[104] Parsons continued to hold O.T.O. activities at the Parsonage but began renting rooms at the house to non-Thelemites, including journalist Nieson Himmel, Manhattan Project physicist Robert Cornog, and science fiction artist Louis Goldstone.[105] Parsons attracted controversy in Pasadena for his preferred clientele. Parsonage resident Alva Rogers recalled in a 1962 article for an occultist fanzine: "In the ads placed in the local paper Jack specified that only bohemians, artists, musicians, atheists, anarchists, or any other exotic types need to apply for rooms—any mundane soul would be unceremoniously rejected".[106]
Science fiction writer and U.S. Navy officer L. Ron Hubbard soon moved into the Parsonage; he and Parsons became close friends. Parsons wrote to Crowley that although Hubbard had "no formal training in Magick he has an extraordinary amount of experience and understanding in the field. From some of his experiences I deduce he is direct touch with some higher intelligence, possibly his Guardian Angel. ... He is the most Thelemic person I have ever met and is in complete accord with our own principles."[107]
Parsons and Sara were in an open relationship encouraged by the O.T.O.'s polyandrous sexual ethics, and she became enamored with Hubbard; Parsons, despite attempting to repress his passions, became intensely jealous.[108] Motivated to find a new partner through occult means, Parsons began to devote his energies to conducting black magic, causing concern among fellow O.T.O. members who believed that it was invoking troublesome spirits into the Parsonage; Jane Wolfe wrote to Crowley that "our own Jack is enamored with Witchcraft, the houmfort, voodoo. From the start he always wanted to evoke something—no matter what, I am inclined to think, as long as he got a result." He told the residents that he was imbuing statues in the house with a magical energy in order to sell them to fellow occultists.[109] Parsons reported paranormal events in the house resulting from the rituals; including poltergeist activity, sightings of orbs and ghostly apparitions, alchemical (sylphic) effect on the weather, and disembodied voices. Pendle suggested that Parsons was particularly susceptible to these interpretations and attributed the voices to a prank by Hubbard and Sara.[109] One ritual allegedly brought screaming banshees to the windows of the Parsonage, an incident that disturbed Forman for the rest of his life.[110] In December 1945 Parsons began a series of rituals based on Enochian magic during which he masturbated onto magical tablets, accompanied by Sergei Prokofiev's Second Violin Concerto. Describing this magical operation as the Babalon Working, he hoped to bring about the incarnation of Thelemite goddess Babalon onto Earth. He allowed Hubbard to take part as his "scribe", believing that he was particularly sensitive to detecting magical phenomena.[111] As described by Richard Metzger, "Parsons jerked off in the name of spiritual advancement" while Hubbard "scanned the astral plane for signs and visions."[112]
Their final ritual took place in the Mojave Desert in late February 1946, during which Parsons abruptly decided that his undertaking was complete. On returning to the Parsonage he discovered that Marjorie Cameron—an unemployed illustrator and former Navy WAVE—had come to visit. Believing her to be the "elemental" woman and manifestation of Babalon that he had invoked, in early March Parsons began performing sex magic rituals with Cameron, who acted as his "Scarlet Woman", while Hubbard continued to participate as the amanuensis. Unlike the rest of the household, Cameron knew nothing at first of Parsons' magical intentions: "I didn't know anything about the O.T.O., I didn't know that they had invoked me, I didn't know anything, but the whole house knew it. Everybody was watching to see what was going on."[113] Despite this ignorance and her skepticism about Parsons' magic, Cameron reported her sighting of a UFO to Parsons, who secretly recorded the sighting as a materialization of Babalon.[114]
Inspired by Crowley's novel Moonchild (1917), Parsons and Hubbard aimed to magically fertilize a  "magical child" through immaculate conception, which when born to a woman somewhere on Earth nine months following the working's completion would become the Thelemic messiah embodying Babalon.[115][116] To quote Metzger, the purpose of the Babalon Working was "a daring attempt to shatter the boundaries of space and time" facilitating, according to Parsons, the emergence of Thelema's Æon of Horus.[112] When Cameron departed for a trip to New York, Parsons retreated to the desert, where he believed that a preternatural entity psychographically provided him with Liber 49, which represented a fourth part of Crowley's The Book of the Law, the primary sacred text of Thelema, as well as part of a new sacred text he called the Book of Babalon.[117] Crowley was bewildered and concerned by the endeavor, complaining to Germer of being "fairly frantic when I contemplate the idiocy of these louts!" Believing the Babalon Working was accomplished, Parsons sold the Parsonage to developers for $25,000 under the condition that he and Cameron could continue to live in the coach house, and he appointed Roy Leffingwell to head the Agape Lodge, which would now have to meet elsewhere for its rituals.[118]
Parsons co-founded a company called Allied Enterprises with Hubbard and Sara, into which Parsons invested his life savings of $20,970. Hubbard suggested that with this money they travel to Miami to purchase three yachts, which they would then sail through the Panama Canal to the West Coast, where they could sell them on for a profit. Parsons agreed, but many of his friends thought it was a bad idea. Hubbard had secretly requested permission from the U.S. Navy to sail to China and South and Central America on a mission to "collect writing material"; his real plans were for a world cruise. Left "flat broke" by this defrauding, Parsons was incensed when he discovered that Hubbard and Sara had left for Miami with $10,000 of the money; he suspected a scam but was placated by a telephone call from Hubbard and agreed to remain business partners. When Crowley, in a telegram to Germer, dismissed Parsons as a "weak fool" and victim to Hubbard and Sara's obvious confidence trick, Parsons changed his mind, flew to Miami and placed a temporary injunction and restraining order on them. Upon tracking them down to a harbor in County Causeway, Parsons discovered that the couple had purchased three yachts as planned; they tried to flee aboard one but hit a squall and were forced to return to port. Parsons was convinced that he had brought them to shore through a lesser banishing ritual of the pentagram containing an astrological, geomantic invocation of Bartzabel—a vengeful spirit of Mars. Allied Enterprises was dissolved and in a court settlement Hubbard was required to promise to reimburse Parsons. Parsons was discouraged from taking further action by Sara, who threatened to report him for statutory rape since their sexual relationship took place when she was under California's age of consent of 18. Parsons was ultimately compensated with only $2,900. Hubbard, already married to Margaret Grubb, bigamously married Sara and went on to found Dianetics and Scientology.[119]
The Sunday Times published an article about Hubbard's involvement with the O.T.O. and Parsons' occult activities in December 1969. In response, the Church of Scientology released an unsubstantiated press statement which said that Hubbard had been sent as an undercover agent by the U.S. Navy to intercept and destroy Parsons' "black magic cult", and save Sara from its influence. The Church also stated that Robert A. Heinlein was the clandestine Navy operative who "sent in" Hubbard to undertake this operation.[120] Returning to California, Parsons completed the sale of the Parsonage, which was then demolished, and resigned from the O.T.O. He wrote in his letter to Crowley that he did not believe that "as an autocratic organization, [the O.T.O.] constitutes a true and proper medium for the expression and attainment" of Thelema.[121]
Parsons was employed by North American Aviation at Inglewood, where he worked on the Navaho Missile Program.[122] He and Cameron moved into a house in Manhattan Beach, where he instructed her in occultism and esotericism.[123] When Cameron developed catalepsy, Parsons referred her to Sylvan Muldoon's books on astral projection, suggesting that she could manipulate her seizures to accomplish it.[124] They were married on October 19, 1946, four days after his divorce from Helen was finalized, with Forman as their witness.[125] Parsons continued to be seen as a specialist in rocketry; he acted as an expert consultant in numerous industrial tribunals and police and Army Ordnance investigations regarding explosions. In May 1947, Parsons gave a talk at the Pacific Rocket Society in which he predicted that rockets would take humans to the Moon.[126] Although he had become distant from the now largely defunct O.T.O. and had sold much of his Crowleyan library, he continued to correspond with Crowley until the latter's death in December 1947.[127]
At the emergence of the Cold War, a Red Scare developed in the U.S. as the Congressional House Un-American Activities Committee began investigating and obstructing the careers of people with perceived communist sympathies. Many of Parsons' former colleagues lost their security clearances and jobs as a result, and eventually the FBI stripped Parsons of his clearance because of his "subversive" character, including his involvement in and advocacy of "sexual perversion" in the O.T.O. He speculated in a June 1949 letter to Germer that his clearance was revoked in response to his public dissemination of Crowley's Liber OZ, a 1941 tract summarizing the individualist moral principles of Thelema. Declassified FBI documents later revealed that the FBI's primary concern was Parsons' former connections to Marxists at Caltech and his membership of the also "subversive" ACLU. When they interviewed Parsons he denied communist sympathies but informed them of Sidney Weinbaum's "extreme communist views" and Frank Malina's involvement in Weinbaum's communist cell at Caltech, which resulted in Weinbaum's arrest for perjury since he had lied under oath by denying any involvement in communist groups. Malina's security clearance was withdrawn as well.[128] In reaction to this hostile treatment, Parsons sought work in the rocket industry abroad. He sought advice to do so in correspondence with von Kármán; whose advice he followed by enrolling in an evening course in advanced mathematics at USC to bolster his employability in the field—but again he neglected attendance and failed the course.[129] Parsons again resorted to bootlegging nitroglycerin for money, and managed to earn a wage as a car mechanic, a manual laborer at a gas station, and a hospital orderly; for two years he was also a faculty member at the USC Department of Pharmacology.[130] Relations between Parsons and Cameron became strained; they agreed to a temporary separation and she moved to Mexico to join an artists' commune in San Miguel de Allende.[131]
Unable to pursue his scientific career, without his wife and devoid of friendship, Parsons decided to return to occultism and embarked on sexually based magical operations with prostitutes. He was intent, informally following the ritualistic practice of Thelemite organization the A∴A∴, on performing "the Crossing of the Abyss",  attaining union with the universal consciousness, or "All" as understood in Thelemic mysticism, and becoming the "Master of the Temple".[132] Following his apparent success in doing so, Parsons recounted having an out-of-body experience invoked by Babalon, who astrally transported him to the biblical City of Chorazin, an experience he referred to as a "Black Pilgrimage". Accompanying Parsons' "Oath of the Abyss" was his own "Oath of the AntiChrist", which was witnessed by Wilfred Talbot Smith. In this oath, Parsons professed to embody an entity named Belarion Armillus Al Dajjal, the Antichrist "who am come to fulfill the law of the Beast 666 [Aleister Crowley]".[132] Viewing these oaths as the completion of the Babalon Working, Parsons wrote an illeist autobiography titled Analysis by a Master of the Temple and an occult text titled The Book of AntiChrist. In the latter work, Parsons (writing as Belarion) prophesied that within nine years Babalon would manifest on Earth and supersede the dominance of the Abrahamic religions.[133]
During this period, Parsons also wrote an essay on his individualist philosophy and politics—which he described as standing for "liberalism and liberal principles"—titled "Freedom is a Two-Edged Sword", in which he condemned the authoritarianism, censorship, corruption, antisexualism and racism he saw as prevalent in American society.[132] None of these works were published in his lifetime. Through Heinlein, Parsons received a visit from writer L. Sprague de Camp, with whom he discussed magic and science fiction, and disclosed that Hubbard had sent a letter offering him Sara back. De Camp later referred to Parsons as "An authentic mad genius if I ever met one", and based the character Courtney James on him in his time travel story A Gun for Dinosaur (1956). Parsons was also visited by Jane Wolfe, who unsuccessfully appealed for him to rejoin the dilapidated O.T.O. He entered a brief relationship with an Irishwoman named Gladis Gohan; they moved to a house on Redondo Beach, a building known by them as the "Concrete Castle".[134][127] Cameron returned to Redondo Beach from San Miguel de Allende and violently argued with Parsons upon discovering his infidelity, before she again left for Mexico. Parsons responded by initiating divorce proceedings against her on the grounds of "extreme cruelty".[135]
Parsons testified to a closed federal court that the moral philosophy of Thelema was both anti-fascist and anti-communist, emphasizing his belief in individualism. This along with references from his scientific colleagues resulted in his security clearance being reinstated by the Industrial Employment Review Board, which ruled that there was insufficient evidence that he had ever had communist sympathies. This allowed Parsons to obtain a contract in designing and constructing a chemical plant for the Hughes Aircraft Company in Culver City.[136] Von Kármán put Parsons in touch with Herbert T. Rosenfeld, President of the Southern Californian chapter of the American Technion Society—a Zionist group dedicated to supporting the newly created State of Israel. Rosenfeld offered Parsons a job with the Israeli rocket program and hired him to produce technical reports for them.[137] In November 1950, as the Red Scare intensified, Parsons decided to migrate to Israel to pursue Rosenfeld's offer, but a Hughes secretary whom Parsons had asked to type up a portfolio of technical documents reported him to the FBI. She accused Parsons of espionage and attempted theft of classified company documents on the basis of some of the reports that he had sought to submit to the Technion Society.[138]
Parsons was immediately fired from Hughes; the FBI investigated the complaint and were suspicious that Parsons was spying for the Israeli government. Parsons denied the allegations when interrogated; he insisted that his intentions were peaceful and that he had suffered an error of judgment in procuring the documents. Some of Parsons' scientific colleagues rallied to his defense, but the case against him worsened when the FBI investigated Rosenfeld for being linked to Soviet agents, and more accounts of his occult and sexually permissive activities at the Parsonage came to light. In October 1951 the U.S. attorney decided that because the contents of the reports did not constitute state secrets, Parsons was not guilty of espionage.[138][139]
The Review Board still considered Parsons a liability because of his historical Marxist affiliations and investigations by the FBI, and in January 1952 they permanently reinstated their ban on his working for classified projects, effectively prohibiting him from working in rocketry.[140] To make a living he founded the Parsons Chemical Manufacturing Company, which was based in North Hollywood and created pyrotechnics and explosives such as fog effects and imitation gunshot wounds for the film industry, and he also returned to chemical manufacturing at the Bermite Powder Company in Saugus.[141][142]
Parsons reconciled with Cameron, and they resumed their relationship and moved into a former coach house on Orange Grove Avenue. Parsons converted its large, first-floor laundry room into a home laboratory to work on his chemical and pyrotechnic projects, homebrew absinthe and stockpile his materials.[144] They let out the upstairs bedrooms and began holding parties that were attended largely by bohemians and members of the Beat Generation, along with old friends including Forman, Malina and Cornog. They also congregated at the home of Andrew Haley, who lived on the same street. Though Parsons in his mid-thirties was a "prewar relic" to the younger attendees, the raucous socials often lasted until dawn and frequently attracted police attention.[145] Parsons also founded a new Thelemite group known as "the Witchcraft", whose beliefs revolved around a simplified version of Crowley's Thelema and Parsons' own Babalon prophecies. He offered a course in its teachings for a ten dollar fee, which included a new Thelemic belief system called "the Gnosis", a version of Christian Gnosticism with Sophia as its godhead and the Christian God as its demiurge. He also collaborated with Cameron on Songs for the Witch Woman, a collection of poems which she illustrated that was published in 2014.[146][147]
Parsons and Cameron decided to travel to Mexico for a few months, both for a vacation and for Parsons to take up a job opportunity establishing an explosives factory for the Mexican government. They hoped that this would facilitate a move to Israel, where they could start a family, and where Parsons could bypass the U.S. government to recommence his rocketry career. He was particularly disturbed by the presence of the FBI, convinced that they were spying on him.[148]
On June 17, 1952, a day before their planned departure, Parsons received a rush order of explosives for a film set and began to work on it in his home laboratory.[149] An explosion destroyed the lower part of the building, during which Parsons sustained mortal wounds. His right forearm was amputated, his legs and left arm were broken and a hole was torn in the right side of his face.[150] Despite these critical injuries, Parsons was found conscious by the upstairs lodgers. He tried to communicate with the arriving ambulance workers, who rushed him to the Huntington Memorial Hospital, where he was declared dead approximately thirty-seven minutes after the explosion.[150] When his mother, Ruth, learned of his death she immediately took a fatal overdose of barbiturates.[151][50]
Pasadena Police Department criminologist Don Harding led the official investigation; he concluded that Parsons had been mixing fulminate of mercury in a coffee can when he dropped it on the floor, causing the initial explosion, which worsened when it came into contact with other chemicals in the room.[152] Forman considered this likely, stating that Parsons often had sweaty hands and could easily have dropped the can.[153] Some of Parsons' colleagues rejected this explanation, saying that he was very attentive about safety. Two colleagues from the Bermite Powder Company described Parsons' work habits as "scrupulously neat" and "exceptionally cautious". The latter statement—from chemical engineer George Santymers—insisted that the explosion must have come from beneath the floorboards, implying an organized plot to kill Parsons. Harding accepted that these inconsistencies were "incongruous" but described the manner in which Parsons had stored his chemicals as "criminally negligent", and noted that Parsons had previously been investigated by the police for illegally storing chemicals at the Parsonage. He also found a morphine-filled syringe at the scene, suggesting that Parsons was narcotized. The police saw insufficient evidence to continue the investigation and closed the case as an accidental death.[154]
—Parsons' obituary in the June 19, 1952 edition of The Pasadena Independent[155]
Both Wolfe and Smith suggested that Parsons' death had been suicide, stating that he had suffered from depression for some time. Others theorized that the explosion was an assassination planned by Howard Hughes in response to Parsons' suspected theft of Hughes Aircraft Company documents.[156] Cameron became convinced that Parsons had been murdered — either by police officers seeking vengeance for his role in the conviction of Earl Kynette or by anti-Zionists opposed to his work for Israel.[157] One of Cameron's friends, the artist Renate Druks, later stated her belief that Parsons had died in a rite designed to create a homunculus.[158] His death has never been definitively explained.[159]
The immediate aftermath of the explosion attracted the interest of the U.S. media, making headline news in the Los Angeles Times. These initial reports focused on Parsons' prominence in rocketry but neglected to mention his occult interests. When asked for comment, Aerojet secretary-treasurer T.E. Beehan said that Parsons "liked to wander, but he was one of the top men in the field".[160] Within a few days, journalists had discovered his involvement in Thelema and emphasized this in their reports.[160]
A private prayer service was held for Parsons at the funeral home where his body was cremated. Cameron scattered his ashes in the Mojave Desert, before burning most of his possessions.[161] She later tried to perform astral projection to commune with him.[162] The O.T.O. also held a memorial service—with attendees including Helen and Sara—at which Smith led the Gnostic Mass.[163]
Parsons was considered effeminate as a child; in adult life he exhibited an attitude of machismo.[164] His FBI file described him as "potentially bisexual" and he once expressed experiencing a latent homosexuality.[62] The actor Paul Mathison said he had had a gay relationship with Parsons in the 1950s, though this was disputed by others who knew him and Cameron.[165] Parsons had the reputation of being a womanizer, and was notorious for frequently flirting and having sexual liaisons with female staff members at JPL and Aerojet.[166][167] He was also known for personal eccentricity such as greeting house guests with a large pet snake around his neck, driving to work in a rundown Pontiac, and using a mannequin dressed in a tuxedo with a bucket labelled "The Resident" as his mailbox.[30][168]
As well as a fencing and archery enthusiast, Parsons was also a keen shooter; he often hunted jack rabbits and cotton tails in the desert, and was amused by mock dueling with Forman while on test sites with rifles and shotguns. Upon proposing to his first wife Helen, he gifted her a pistol.[30][164][169] Parsons enjoyed playing pranks on his colleagues, often through detonating explosives such as firecrackers and smoke bombs,[170] and was known to spend hours at a time in the bathtub playing with toy boats while living at the Parsonage.[171]
As well as intense bursts of creativity, Parsons suffered from what he described as "manic hysteria and depressing melancholy".[172] His father Marvel, after suffering a near-fatal heart attack, died in 1947 as a psychiatric patient at St. Elizabeths Hospital in Washington D.C. diagnosed with severe clinical depression, a condition Pendle suggested the younger Parsons inherited.[173]
Parsons' obituary listed him as a member of the Army Ordnance Association, the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, the American Chemical Society, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and—despite his lack of an academic degree—the Sigma Xi fraternity. It also stated that he had turned down several honorary degrees.[174]
—George Pendle[175]
Parsons adhered to the occult philosophy of Thelema, which had been founded in 1904 by the English occultist Aleister Crowley following a spiritual revelation that he had in Cairo, Egypt, when—according to Crowley's accounts—a spirit being known as Aiwass dictated to him a prophetic text known as The Book of the Law.[176] Prior to becoming aware of Thelema and Crowley, Parsons' interest in esotericism was developed through his reading of The Golden Bough (1890), a work in comparative mythology by Scottish social anthropologist James George Frazer.[177] Parsons had also attended lectures on Theosophy by philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurti with his first wife Helen, but disliked the belief system's sentiment of "the good and the true".[178] During rocket tests, Parsons often recited Crowley's poem "Hymn to Pan" as a good luck charm.[167] He took to addressing Crowley as his "Most Beloved Father" and signed off to him as "thy son, John".[179]
In July 1945, Parsons gave a speech to the Agape Lodge, in which he attempted to explain how he felt that The Book of the Law could be made relevant to "modern life". In this speech, which was subsequently published under the title of "Doing Your Will", he examined the Thelemite concept of True Will, writing that:
The mainspring of an individual is his creative Will. This Will is the sum of his tendencies, his destiny, his inner truth. It is one with the force that makes the birds sing and flowers bloom; as inevitable as gravity, as implicit as a bowel movement, it informs alike atoms and men and suns.
To the man who knows this Will, there is no why or why not, no can or cannot; he is!
There is no known force that can turn an apple into an alley cat; there is no known force that can turn a man from his Will. This is the triumph of genius; that, surviving the centuries, enlightens the world.
This force burns in every man.[180]Parsons identified four obstacles that prevented humans from achieving and performing their True Will, all of which he connected with fear: the fear of incompetence, the fear of the opinion of others, the fear of hurting others, and the fear of insecurity. He insisted that these must be overcome, writing that "The Will must be freed of its fetters. The ruthless examination and destruction of taboos, complexes, frustrations, dislikes, fears and disgusts hostile to the Will is essential to progress."[181]
Though Parsons was a lifelong devotee to Thelema, he grew weary of and eventually left the Ordo Templi Orientis—the religious organization that began propagating Thelema under Crowley's leadership from the 1910s—which Parsons viewed, despite the disagreement of Crowley himself, as excessively hierarchical and impeding upon the rigorous spiritual and philosophical practice of True Will, describing the O.T.O. as "an excellent training school for adepts, but hardly an appropriate Order for the manifestation of Thelema". In this sense Parsons was described by Carter as an "almost fundamentalist" Thelemite who placed The Book of the Law's dogma above all other doctrine.[133][182]
—William Breeze (Hymenaeus Beta), current Frater Superior of Ordo Templi Orientis[183]
From early on in his career, Parsons took an interest in socialism and communism,[184] views that he shared with his friend Frank Malina.[185] Under the influence of another friend, Sidney Weinbaum, the two joined a communist group in the late 1930s, with Parsons reading Marxist literature, but he remained unconvinced and refused to join the American Communist Party.[55] Malina asserted that this was because Parsons was a "political romantic", whose attitude was more anti-authoritarian than anti-capitalist.[186] Parsons later became critical of the Marxist–Leninist government of the Soviet Union led by Joseph Stalin, sarcastically commenting that
The dictatorship of the proletariat is merely temporary—the state will eventually wither away like a snark hunter, leaving us all free as birds. Meanwhile it may be necessary to kill, torture and imprison a few million people, but whose fault is it if they get in the way of progress?[187]During the era of McCarthyism and the Second Red Scare in the early 1950s, Parsons was questioned regarding his former links to the communist movement, by which time he denied any connection to it, instead describing himself as "an individualist" who was both anti-communist and anti-fascist.[188] In reaction to the McCarthyite red-baiting of scientists, he expressed disdain that
Science, that was going to save the world in H. G. Wells' time is regimented, straight-jacked, [and] scared shitless, its universal language diminished to one word, security.[189]Parsons was politically influenced by Thelema—which holds to the ethical code of "Do what thou wilt"—equating this principle to the libertarian views of some of the Founding Fathers of the United States in his article "Freedom is a Lonely Star", writing that by his own time these values had been "sold out by America, and for that reason the heart of America is sick and the soul of America is dead."[190] He proceeded to criticize many aspects of contemporary U.S. society, particularly the police force, remarking that "The police mind is usually of a sadistic and homicidal trend" and noting that they carried out the "ruthless punishment of symbolic scapegoats" such as African-Americans, prostitutes, alcoholics, homeless people and sociopolitical radicals, under the pretense of a country that upheld "liberty and justice for all."[191]
To bring about a freer future Parsons believed in liberalizing attitudes to sexual morality stating that, in his belief, the publication of the Kinsey report and development of the psychonautical sciences had as significant an influence on Western society as the creation of the atomic bomb and the development of nuclear physics. He also believed that in the future the restrictions on sexual morality within society should be abolished in order to bring about greater freedom and individuality. Parsons concluded that
the liberty of the individual is the foundation of civilization. No true civilization is possible without this liberty and no state, national or international, is stable in its absence. The proper relation between individual liberty on the one hand and social responsibility on the other is the balance which will assure a stable society. The only other road to social equilibrium demands the total annihilation of individuality. There is not further evasion of nature's immemorial ultimatum: change or perish but the choice of change is ours.[192]Jack Cashill, American studies professor at Purdue University, argues that "Although his literary career never got much beyond pamphleteering and an untitled anti-war, anti-capitalist manuscript", Parsons played a significant role—greater than that of Church of Satan founder Anton LaVey—in shaping the Californian counterculture of the 1960s and beyond through his influence on contemporaries such as Hubbard and Heinlein.[193] Hugh Urban, religious studies professor at Ohio State University, cites Parsons' Witchcraft group as precipitating the neopagan revival of the 1950s.[116][194]
Science fiction writer and occultist Robert Anton Wilson described Parsons' political writings as exemplifying an "ultra-individualist" who exhibited a "genuine sympathy for working people", strongly empathized with feminism and held an antipathy toward patriarchy comparable to that of John Stuart Mill, arguing in this context that Parsons was an influence on the American libertarian and anarchist movements of the 20th century.[195] Parsons was also supportive of the creation of the State of Israel, making plans to emigrate there when his military security clearance was revoked.[184]
In the decades following his death, Parsons was well remembered among the Western esoteric community; his scientific recognition frequently amounted to a footnote.[196] For instance, English Thelemite Kenneth Grant suggested that Parsons' Babalon Working marked the start of the appearance of flying saucers in the skies, leading to phenomena such as the Roswell UFO incident and Kenneth Arnold UFO sighting.[197] Cameron postulated that the 1952 Washington, D.C. UFO incident was a spiritual reaction to Parsons' death.[162] In 1954 she portrayed Babalon in American Thelemite Kenneth Anger's short film Inauguration of the Pleasure Dome, viewing this cinematic depiction of a Thelemic ritual as aiding the literal invocation of Babalon begun by Parsons' working, and later said that his Book of the AntiChrist prophecies were fulfilled through the manifestation of Babalon in her person.[198][199]
In December 1958 JPL was integrated into the newly established National Aeronautics and Space Administration, after having built the Explorer 1 satellite that commenced America's Space Race with the Soviet Union.[200] Aerojet was contracted by NASA to build the main engine of the Apollo Command/Service Module, and the Space Shuttle Orbital Maneuvering System.[71] In a letter to Frank Malina, von Kármán ranked Parsons first in a list of figures he viewed as most important to modern rocketry and the foundation of the American space program.[201] According to Richard Metzger, Wernher von Braun—who was nicknamed "The Father of Rocket Science"—once argued that Parsons was more worthy of this moniker.[112] In October 1968 Malina, a pioneer in sounding rocketry, gave a speech at JPL in which he highlighted Parsons' contribution to the U.S. rocket project, and lamented how it had come to be neglected, crediting him for making "key contributions to the development of storable propellants and of long duration solid propellant agents that play such an important role in American and European space technology."[202]
The same month JPL held an open access event to mark the 32nd anniversary of its foundation—which featured a "nativity scene" of mannequins reconstructing the November 1936 photograph of the GALCIT Group—and erected a monument commemorating their first rocket test on Halloween 1936.[25] Among the aerospace industry, JPL was nicknamed as standing for "Jack Parsons' Laboratory" or "Jack Parsons Lives".[159] The International Astronomical Union decided to name a crater on the far side of the Moon Parsons after him in 1972.[203] JPL later credited him for making "distinctive technical innovations that advanced early efforts" in rocket engineering, with aerospace journalist Craig Covault stating that the work of Parsons, Qian Xuesen and the GALCIT Group "planted the seeds for JPL to become preeminent in space and rocketry."[20][204]
Many of Parsons' writings were posthumously published as Freedom is a Two-Edged Sword in 1989, a compilation co-edited by Cameron and O.T.O. leader Hymenaeus Beta (ceremonial name of musician William Breeze), which incited a resurgence of interest in Parsons within occult and countercultural circles.[205] For example, comic book artist and occultist Alan Moore noted Parsons as a creative influence in a 1998 interview with Clifford Meth.[206] The Cameron-Parsons Foundation was founded as an incorporated company in 2006, with the intention of conserving and promoting Parsons' writings and Cameron's artwork,[207] and in 2014 Fulger Esoterica published Songs for the Witch Woman—a limited edition book of poems by Parsons with illustrations by Cameron, released to coincide with his centenary. An exhibition of the same name was held at the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles.[147]
In 1999 Feral House published the biography Sex and Rockets: The Occult World of Jack Parsons by John Carter, who expressed the opinion that Parsons had accomplished more in under five years of research than Robert H. Goddard had in his lifetime, and said that his role in the development of rocket technology had been neglected by historians of science;[201] Carter thought that Parsons' abilities and accomplishments as an occultist had been overestimated and exaggerated among Western esotericists, emphasizing his disowning by Crowley for practicing magic beyond his grade.[208] Feral House republished the work as a new edition in 2004, accompanied with an introduction by Robert Anton Wilson. Wilson believed that Parsons was "the one single individual who contributed the most to rocket science",[209] describing him as being "very strange, very brilliant, very funny, [and] very tormented",[210] and considering it noteworthy that the day of Parsons' birth was the predicted beginning of the apocalypse advocated by Charles Taze Russell, the founder of the Bible Student movement.[211]
A second biography of Parsons was published in 2005 through Weidenfeld & Nicolson with the title Strange Angel: The Otherworldly Life of Rocket Scientist John Whiteside Parsons; it was written by George Pendle, who described Parsons as "the Che Guevara of occultism" and said that although Parsons "would not live to see his dream of space travel come true, he was essential to making it a reality."[212][112] Pendle considered that the cultural stigma attached to Parsons' occultism was the primary cause of his low public profile, noting that "Like many scientific mavericks, Parsons was eventually discarded by the establishment once he had served his purpose." It was this unorthodox mindset,  creatively facilitated by his science fiction fandom and "willingness to believe in magic's efficacy",  Pendle argued, "that allowed him to break scientific barriers previously thought to be indestructible"—commenting that Parsons "saw both space and magic as ways of exploring these new frontiers—one breaking free from Earth literally and metaphysically."[213][214]
L. Ron Hubbard's role in Parsons' Agape Lodge and the ensuing yacht scam were explored in Russell Miller's 1987 Hubbard biography Bare-faced Messiah. Parsons' involvement in the Agape Lodge were also discussed by Martin P. Starr in his history of the American Thelemite movement, The Unknown God: W.T. Smith and the Thelemites, published by Teitan Press in 2003.[215] The QI Book of the Dead (2004), based on the BBC game show, included a Parsons obituary. Parsons' occult partnership with Hubbard was also mentioned in Alex Gibney's 2015 documentary film Going Clear: Scientology and the Prison of Belief, produced by HBO.[216]
Before his death, Parsons appeared in science fiction writer Anthony Boucher's murder-mystery novel Rocket to the Morgue (1942) under the guise of mad scientist character Hugo Chantrelle.[217] Another fictional character based on Parsons was Courtney James, a wealthy socialite who features in L. Sprague de Camp's 1956 short time travel story A Gun for Dinosaur.[218]  In 2005 Pasadena Babalon, a stage play about Parsons written by George D. Morgan and directed by Brian Brophy, premiered at Caltech as a production by its theater Arts Group in 2010, the same year Cellar Door Publishing released Richard Carbonneau and Robin Simon Ng's graphic novel, The Marvel: A Biography of Jack Parsons.[219][220] In 2012 the Science Channel broadcast a documentary dramatization titled Magical Jet Propulsion in an episode of its Dark Matters: Twisted But True television series. Parsons was portrayed by English actor Adam Howden. Independent record label Drag City released Parsons' Blues, an instrumental tribute single by experimental rock act Six Organs of Admittance.[221][222]
In 2014 AMC Networks announced plans for a serial television dramatization of Parsons' life,[223] but in 2016 it was reported that the series "will not be going forward."[224] In 2017 the project was adopted as a web television series by CBS All Access. Strange Angel, produced by Mark Heyman and starring Irish actor Jack Reynor, premiered in June 2018.
In 2018 Parsons was featured in an episode of the Amazon series Lore.
In 2018 The Claypool Lennon Delirium released the song "Blood and Rockets: Movement I, Saga of Jack Parsons / Movement II, Too the Moon", which was later featured on its album South of Reality.[225]
In 2020 Luke Haines and Peter Buck recorded a song, "Jack Parsons", about Parsons. It was included on their 2020 album Beat Poetry for Survivalists.[226]

TITLE: Sam Altman
Samuel H. "Sam" Altman (/ˈɔːltmən/; born April 22, 1985) is an American entrepreneur, investor, programmer, and blogger.[1] He is the former president of Y Combinator and now the CEO of OpenAI.[2][3]
Altman grew up in St. Louis, Missouri; his mother was a dermatologist. He received his first computer at the age of 8.[4] He was raised Jewish.[5] He attended John Burroughs School for high school and studied computer science at Stanford University until dropping out in 2005.[6] While studying at Stanford, he worked in the AI Lab.[7] In 2017, he received an honorary degree from the University of Waterloo.[8]
In 2005, at age 19,[9] Altman co-founded and became CEO of Loopt,[10] a location-based social networking mobile application. After raising more than $30M in venture capital, Loopt was shut down in 2012 after failing to get traction. It was acquired by the Green Dot Corporation for $43.4 million.[11][12]
Altman began as a part-time partner at Y Combinator in 2011.[7][13] In February 2014, Altman was named president of Y Combinator by its cofounder Paul Graham.[14][15] His first batch of investments included Loopt. In a 2014 blog post, Altman said that the total valuation of Y Combinator companies had surpassed $65 billion, including well-known companies like Airbnb, Dropbox, Zenefits and Stripe.[16]  In September 2016, Altman announced that he would become president of YC Group, which includes Y Combinator and other units.[17]
Altman has said that he hopes to expand Y Combinator to fund 1,000 new companies per year. He has also tried to expand the types of companies funded by YC, especially 'hard technology' companies.[18]
In October 2015, Altman announced YC Continuity, a $700 million growth-stage equity fund that invests in YC companies.[19] Also in October 2015, Altman announced Y Combinator Research, a non-profit research lab, and donated $10 million to the group.[20] YC Research has thus far announced research on basic income, the future of computing, education, and building new cities.[21]
Altman was named the top investor under 30 by Forbes in 2015,[22] one of the "Best Young Entrepreneurs in Technology" by BusinessWeek in 2008[23] and listed as one of the five most interesting startup founders between 1979 and 2009 by his colleague Paul Graham.[24]
In March 2019, YC announced Altman's transitioning into a Chairman position to focus more on OpenAI.[25] This decision came shortly after YC announced it will be moving its headquarters to San Francisco.[26] Today, he is no longer affiliated with YC. 
He is a personal investor in many companies, including Airbnb, Stripe, Reddit, Asana, Pinterest, Teespring, Zenefits, FarmLogs, Shoptiques, Instacart, Optimizely, Verbling, Soylent, Reserve, Vicarious, Clever, Notable PDF[27][28] and Change.org.[29]
He was the CEO of Reddit for eight days in 2014 after CEO Yishan Wong resigned.[30] As part of his investment, he developed a new way for the community to own part of the company. He announced the return of Steve Huffman as CEO on July 10, 2015.[31]
He is chairman of the board for Helion and Oklo, two nuclear energy companies. He has said that nuclear energy is one of the most important areas of technological development.[32]
Altman and Elon Musk were the co-chairmen of OpenAI. OpenAI is a for profit research company whose goal is to advance digital intelligence in a way that is most likely to benefit humanity as a whole, rather than cause harm.[33]
In fall 2014, Altman taught a class at Stanford University called "How To Start a Startup". Guest lecturers included Dustin Moskovitz, Paul Graham, Peter Thiel, Adora Cheung, Alex Schultz, Marc Andreessen, Ron Conway, Carolynn Levy, Kirsty Nathoo, Ben Horowitz, Brian Chesky, Alfred Lin, Aaron Levie, Reid Hoffman, Kevin Hale, Ben Silbermann and Emmett Shear. He currently teaches Y Combinator Startup School, a 10-week course featuring guests including Stewart Butterfield, Adam D'Angelo, and Dustin Moskovitz.[34]
Altman occasionally posts to his blog, mostly about startups and technology.[35]
He also wrote Startup Playbook, a distillation of advice that Y Combinator gives to its startups.[36]

TITLE: Mukesh Ambani
Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (born 19 April 1957) is an Indian billionaire business magnate, and the chairman, managing director, and largest shareholder of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL), a Fortune Global 500 company and India's most valuable company by market value.[5] As of March 2020, Mukesh Ambani is the second richest Asian after Chineese business magnate Jack Ma.[6]
Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani was born on 19 April 1957 in the British Crown colony of Aden (in present-day Yemen) to Dhirubhai Ambani and Kokilaben Ambani . He has a younger brother Anil Ambani and two sisters, Nina Bhadrashyam Kothari and Dipti Dattaraj Salgaocar.
Ambani lived only briefly in Yemen because his father decided to move back to India in 1958,[7] to start a trading business that focused on spices and textiles. The latter was originally named "Vimal" but later changed to "Only Vimal."[8] His family lived in a modest two-bedroom apartment in Bhuleshwar, Mumbai until the 1970s.[9] The family's financial status slightly improved when they moved to India but Ambani still lived in a communal society, used public transportation, and never received an allowance.[10] Dhirubhai later purchased a 14-floor apartment block called 'Sea Wind' in Colaba, where, until recently, Ambani and his brother lived with their families on different floors.[11]
Growing up Ambani played football and hockey, enjoyed annual trips to villages, and explored the different areas of Bombay. His father cared little about Ambani's grades, but more so about his all-around performance.[12]
Ambani attended the Hill Grange High School at Peddar Road, Mumbai, along with his brother and Anand Jain, who later became his close associate.[13] He received BE degree in Chemical Engineering from Institute of Chemical Technology [14] Ambani later enrolled for an MBA at Stanford University but withdrew in 1980 to help his father build Reliance, which at the time was still a small but fast-growing enterprise.[15] Dhirubhai believed that real-life skills were harnessed through experiences and not by sitting in a classroom, so he called him back to India from Stanford to take command of a yarn manufacturing project in his Company.[10] He has been quoted as saying that he was influenced by his Professor/s William F. Sharpe and Man Mohan Sharma because they are "the kind of Professors who made you think out of the box."[12]
In 1981 he started to help his father Dhirubhai Ambani run their family business, Reliance Industries Limited. By this time, it has already expanded so that it also deals in refining and petrochemicals. The business also included products and services in retail and telecommunications industries. Reliance Retail Ltd., another subsidiary, is also the largest retailer in India.[16] Reliance's Jio has earned a top-five spot in the country's telecommunication services since its public launch on 5 September 2016.
As of 2016, Ambani was ranked 38 and has consistently held the title of India's richest person on Forbes magazine's list for the past ten years.[17] He is the only Indian businessman on Forbes' list of the world's most powerful people.[18] As of January 2018, Mukesh Ambani was ranked by Forbes as the 18th-wealthiest person in the world. He surpassed Jack Ma, executive chairman of Alibaba Group, to become Asia's richest person with a net worth of $44.3 billion in July 2018. He is also the wealthiest person in the world outside North America and Europe.[19] As of 2015, Ambani ranked fifth among India's philanthropists, according to China's Hurun Research Institute.[20] He was appointed as a  Director of Bank of America and became the first non-American to be on its board.[21]
Through Reliance, he also owns the Indian Premier League franchise Mumbai Indians and is the founder of Indian Super League, a football league in India.[22] In 2012, Forbes named him one of the richest sports owners in the world.[23] He resides at the Antilia Building, one of the world's most expensive private residences with its value reaching $1 billion.[24]
In 1980, the Indian government under Indira Gandhi opened PFY (polyester filament yarn) manufacturing to the private sector. Dhirubhai Ambani applied for a license to set up a PFY manufacturing plant. Obtaining the license was a long-drawn-out process requiring a strong connection within the bureaucracy system because the government, at the time, was restricting large-scale manufacturing, making the importation of yarn for the textiles impossible.[25] In spite of stiff competition from Tatas, Birlas and 43 others, Dhirubhai was awarded the license, more commonly addressed as License Raj.[26] To help him build the PFY plant, Dhirubhai pulled his eldest son out of Stanford, where he was studying for his MBA, to work with him in the company. Ambani did not return to his university program, leading Reliance's backward integration, where companies own their suppliers to generate more revenue and improve efficiency, in 1981 from textiles into polyester fibers and further into petrochemicals, which the yarns were made from.[5] After joining the company, he reported daily to Rasikbhai Meswani, then executive director. The company was being built from scratch with the principle of everybody contributing to the business and not heavily depend on selected individuals. Dhirubhai treated him as a business partner allowing him the freedom to contribute even with little experience.[27] This principle came into play after Rasikbhai's death in 1985 along with Dhirubhai suffering a stroke in 1986 when all the responsibility shifted to Ambani and his brother.[28] Mukesh Ambani set up Reliance Infocomm Limited (now Reliance Communications Limited), which was focused on information and communications technology initiatives.[29] At the age of 24, Ambani was given charge of the construction of Patalganga petrochemical plant when the company was heavily investing in oil refinery and petrochemicals.[30]
On 6 July 2002, Mukesh's father died after suffering a second stroke,[31] which elevated tensions between the brothers as Dhirubhai had not left a will for the distribution of the empire in 2004.[32] Their mother intervened to stop the feud, splitting the company into two, Ambani receiving control of Reliance Industries Limited and Indian Petrochemicals Corporation Limited, which was later approved by the Bombay High Court in December 2005.[33]
Ambani directed and led the creation of the world's largest grassroots petroleum refinery at Jamnagar, India, which had the capacity to produce 660,000 barrels per day (33  million tonnes per year) in 2010, integrated with petrochemicals, power generation, port, and related infrastructure.[34] In December 2013 Ambani announced, at the Progressive Punjab Summit in Mohali, the possibility of a "collaborative venture" with Bharti Airtel in setting up digital infrastructure for the 4G network in India.[35] On 18 June 2014, Mukesh Ambani, while addressing the 40th AGM of Reliance Industries, said he will invest Rs 1.8  trillion (short scale) across businesses in the next three years and launch 4G broadband services in 2015.[36] In February 2016, Ambani-led Jio launched its own 4G smartphone brand named LYF.[37] In June 2016, it was India's third-largest-selling mobile phone brand.[38] The release of the service Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, commonly known as Jio, in September 2016 was a success, and Reliance's shares increased.[39] During the 40th annual general meeting of RIL, he announced bonus shares in the ratio of 1:1 which is the country's largest bonus issue in India, and announced the Jio Phone at an effective price of ₹0.[40] As of February 2018, Bloomberg's "Robin Hood Index" estimated that Ambani's personal wealth was enough to fund the operations of the Indian federal government for 20 days.[41]
In February 2014, a First Information Report (FIR) alleging criminal offenses was filed against Mukesh Ambani for alleged irregularities in the pricing of natural gas from the KG basin.[42] Arvind Kejriwal, who had a short stint as Delhi's chief minister and had ordered the FIR, has accused various political parties of being silent on the gas price issue.[43] Kejriwal has asked both Rahul Gandhi and Narendra Modi to clear their stand on the gas pricing issue.[44][45] Kejriwal has alleged that the Centre allowed the price of gas to be inflated to eight dollars a unit though Mukesh Ambani's company spends only one dollar to produce a unit, which meant a loss of Rs. 540 billion to the country annually.[46][47]
He married Nita Ambani in 1985 and they have two sons; Anant and Akash, and a daughter, Isha.[62][4] They met after his father attended a dance performance which Nita took part in and thought of the idea of arranging a marriage between the two.[63]
They live in Antilia, a private 27-storey building in Mumbai, which was valued at US$1 billion and was the most expensive private residence in the world at the time it was built.[24][64] The building requires a staff of 600 for maintenance, and it includes three helipads, a 160-car garage, private movie theater, swimming pool, and fitness center.[65]
In 2007, Ambani gifted his wife a $60 million Airbus A319 for her 44th birthday.[66] The airbus, which has a capacity of 180 passengers, has been custom-fitted to include a living room, bedroom, satellite television, WiFi, sky bar, Jacuzzi, and an office.[67]
Ambani was titled "The World's Richest Sports Team Owner" after his purchase of the IPL cricket team Mumbai Indians for $111.9 million in 2008.[68][69]
In an interview with Rajdeep Sardesai in March 2017, he said that his favourite food continued to be idli sambar and his favourite restaurant remains Mysore Café, a restaurant in Kings circle (Mumbai) where he used to eat as a student at UDCT.[70] Mukesh Ambani is a strict vegetarian and teetotaler.[71] He is a very big fan of Bollywood movies, watching three a week because he says "you need some amount of escapism in life."[32][27]
His wife, Nita, describes him as very quiet, modest, and shy.[72] As his father took time out of his busy schedule for his children, Ambani makes it a top priority to spend quality time with his children and family every Sunday.[73][74]
During the fiscal year ending 31 March 2012, he reportedly decided to forgo nearly ₹240 million from his annual pay as chief of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL). He elected to do this even as RIL's total remuneration packages to its top management personnel increased during that fiscal year. Mukesh Ambani holds a 44.7% stake in the company.[75] This move kept his salary capped at ₹150  million for the fourth year in a row.[76]

TITLE: Sundar Pichai
Pichai Sundararajan (born June 10, 1972[3]), also known as Sundar Pichai (/ˈsʊndɑːr pɪˈtʃaɪ/), is an Indian American business executive,[4] the chief executive officer (CEO) of Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiary Google LLC.[5][6][7] Pichai began his career as a materials engineer and joined Google as a management executive in 2004. He rose to become the company's Product Chief, then Google's CEO in 2015, as part of the restructuring process that made Alphabet Inc. into Google's parent company.[8][9] In December 2019, he additionally became CEO of Alphabet Inc.[10][11]
Pichai was born in Madurai, Tamil Nadu, India.[12][13] His mother Lakshmi was a stenographer and his father, Regunatha Pichai was an electrical engineer at GEC, the British conglomerate. His father also had a manufacturing plant that produced electrical components.[14][15] Pichai grew up in a two-room apartment in Ashok Nagar, Chennai.[14]
Pichai completed schooling in Jawahar Vidyalaya, a Central Board of Secondary Education school in Ashok Nagar, Chennai and completed the Class XII from Vana Vani school in the Indian Institute of Technology Madras.[16][17] He earned his degree from Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur in metallurgical engineering and is a distinguished alumnus from that institution.[18] He holds an M.S. from Stanford University in material sciences and engineering, and an MBA from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania,[19] where he was named a Siebel Scholar and a Palmer Scholar, respectively.[20][21]
Pichai worked in engineering and product management at Applied Materials and in management consulting at McKinsey & Company.[22] Pichai joined Google in 2004, where he led the product management and innovation efforts for a suite of Google's client software products, including Google Chrome[23] and Chrome OS, as well as being largely responsible for Google Drive. He went on to oversee the development of other applications such as Gmail and Google Maps.[24][25] On November 19, 2009, Pichai gave a demonstration of Chrome OS; the Chromebook was released for trial and testing in 2011, and released to the public in 2012.[26] On May 20, 2010, he announced the open-sourcing of the new video codec VP8 by Google and introduced the new video format, WebM.[27]
On March 13, 2013, Pichai added Android to the list of Google products that he oversees. Android was formerly managed by Andy Rubin.[28] He was a director of Jive Software from April 2011 to July 30, 2013.[29][30][31] Pichai was selected to become the next CEO of Google on August 10, 2015[8] after previously being appointed Product Chief by CEO, Larry Page. On October 24, 2015 he stepped into the new position at the completion of the formation of Alphabet Inc., the new holding company for the Google company family.[9][31][32]
Pichai had been suggested as a contender for Microsoft's CEO in 2014, a position that was eventually given to Satya Nadella.[33][34]
In August 2017, Pichai drew publicity for firing a Google employee who wrote a ten-page manifesto criticizing the company's diversity policies and arguing that "distribution of preferences and abilities of men and women differ in part due to biological causes and ... these differences may explain why we don't see equal representation of women in tech and leadership".[35][36][37][38] While noting that the manifesto raised a number of issues that are open to debate, Pichai said in a memo to Google employees that "to suggest a group of our colleagues have traits that make them less biologically suited to that work is offensive and not OK".[39]
In December 2017, Pichai was a speaker at the World Internet Conference in China, where he stated that "a lot of work Google does is to help Chinese companies. There are many small and medium-sized businesses in China who take advantage of Google to get their products to many other countries outside of China."[40][41]
On December 11, 2018, Pichai testified before the U.S. House Judiciary Committee on a wide range of Google-related issues such as the alleged, potential political bias on Google's platforms, the company's alleged plans for a "censored search app" in China, and its privacy practices.[42] Pichai, in response, stated that Google employees cannot influence search results. He also stated that Google users can opt out of having their data collected and that "there are no current plans for a censored search engine" in China.[43] Wired's Issie Lapowsky characterized Pichai's appearance before the committee as one "major missed opportunity," since, as she wrote, its members "staked out opposite sides of a partisan battle," and presented to the public "a foreboding reminder of Congress's continued technological ignorance."[44]
He is married to Anjali Pichai, née Wiki, a chemical engineer from Kota, Rajasthan. They met as classmates at the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur.[45] The couple have two children.[46] Pichai's interests include football and cricket.[47][48]

TITLE: Thom Weisel
Thomas "Thom" Weisel (born February 1941) is an American banker, businessman, and investor. He was one of the pioneers in the development of the high tech industry in Silicon Valley.  Weisel is the founder of Montgomery Securities and later Thomas Weisel Partners.[1]
Weisel was born in February 1941 at the Mayo Clinic, son of Wilson Weisel a prominent surgeon and Betty Amos Weisel. Weisel was raised in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and graduated from Stanford University with a degree in economics in 1963. Weisel was a champion speed skater as a teenager and won five national age-group championships at speed skating, and came third at Olympic trials in 1959.[2]
In 1966, Weisel received an MBA from Harvard Business School.[3]  He began his career as a research analyst working for William Hutchinson on the West Coast.[4]
In 1971, Weisel co-founded Robertson, Coleman, Siebel & Weisel (the firm had begun with three partners in 1969).  In 1978 Weisel became chief executive of the firm and prompted the departure of his co-founders Sandy Robertson and Robert Colman.  Weisel changed the name of the firm to Montgomery Securities.  Robertson left the firm in October 1978 and founded Robertson, Colman, Stephens & Woodman, the predecessor of the investment banking firm Robertson Stephens.[5]
Montgomery Securities was behind numerous initial public offerings during the rise of tech stocks in the 1980s and 90s, including AMGen in 1983, Micron Technologies in 1984, and Yahoo! Inc. in 1996.[6] The firm was one of four investment banks that, as a group, were referred to as the “Four Horsemen,” due to their prominence in the underwriting of the IPOs of many of the most successful companies in Silicon Valley at the time.[6][7] From 1989-96, Montgomery Securities raised $57.3 billion in equity and underwrote 293 IPOs.[8]
In 1997, Weisel spearheaded a $1.3 billion acquisition of Montgomery Securities by NationsBank.[9]  The following year, however, NationsBank acquired BankAmerica Corp. The newly combined investment banking units later became known as Banc of America Securities.
In January 1999, Weisel, together with other personnel from the former Montgomery Securities secured venture capital funding from Silicon Valley investors and launched investment banking and wealth management firm Thomas Weisel Partners. The firm closed its first year of business with revenue of $186 million, completing $23 billion in transactions, including advising Yahoo! in their $4.6 billion merger with GeoCities. The firm's performance led Investment Dealer's Digest to name Weisel Investment Banker of the Year in 1999, and Harvard Business School used Thomas Weisel Partners as a field case for six years.[10][11][12] Weisel also received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the National Venture Capital Association in 2006, in part due to the success of Thomas Weisel Partners.[12] The firm became part of Stifel Financial in 2010, which Weisel joined as co-chairman.
Weisel has been active in professional sports as an investor, board member, manager, and participant for most of his career. In 1982, he was a Bronze medalist in the U.S. Master's Skiing Championship.[13] Weisel is also a five-time National Master's Cycling champion, and three-time World Master's Cycling champion (1990-1992).[14]
Since 1977, Weisel has been on the board of the U.S. Ski and Snowboard Team and was elected Chairman in 1983, a position he held until 1994.[15] During this time, Weisel was responsible for merging the U.S. Ski Team with the U.S. Ski Association, and overhauling its governance and funding.[16] In 1999, the USSA awarded him the Julius Blegen Award, their highest honor.[15] Weisel was also honored by the United States Olympic Foundation in 2011 with the Foundation's George M. Steinbrenner III Sport Leadership Award. The award was given in recognition of Weisel's financial support and leadership since 1977.[15] In April 2018, Weisel was inducted in the US Ski and Snowboard Hall of Fame at a ceremony in Squaw Valley, California.
Weisel started Montgomery Sports in 1987 as a cycling venture. The team was renamed Subaru-Montgomery in the early 1990s, then Montgomery-Bell (for Bell Sports), and finally renamed for the U.S. Postal Service. He is also the founder of the USA Cycling Development Foundation and has served as its Chairman since 2000.[17] As chairman, Weisel reorganized and restructured the Foundation similar to the USSA, revamping the organization's board and funding sources.[18]
In 2000, Weisel organised a bailout of USA Cycling which was experiencing financial difficulties.[19]
Weisel was an important financial backer of Tailwind Sports, a company formed to manage the U.S. Postal Service Pro Cycling Team (USPS), which cyclist Lance Armstrong joined in 1998. Weisel formed a relationship with Armstrong early in Armstrong's career and was a primary source of support and funding. In a 2002 article, Armstrong credited Weisel for founding and investing in the team in its early stages, before its championship wins.[20] Armstrong had previously been a team member of Weisel's Subaru-Montgomery team. Tailwind Sports were the owners of the USPS team for the first five of Armstrong's Tour de France wins.
In 2006 Weisel contributed to the "Floyd Fairness Fund" with fellow Tailwind Sports owners to support cyclist Floyd Landis when he was accused of doping offences. In 2010 Landis filed a lawsuit against Weisel, Lance Armstrong, Johan Bruyneel, Bill Stapleton, Barton Knaggs, Tailwind Sports, and Capital Sports and Entertainment under the False Claims Act, alleging that the defendants had defrauded the federal government. A federal suit was filed in 2013, but the government declined to name Weisel, Knaggs, Stapleton, and Capital Sports and Entertainment as defendants.[21]
Weisel vehemently denied Landis's allegations, and claims against him were dropped by a federal judge in June 2014.[22][23]
Weisel is a collector of modern art, and an elected trustee of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.[24] Weisel also served on the board of trustees for the New York Museum of Modern Art from 1996-2011. His personal collection contains American art from the early New York school, the California figurative movement, and Native American art spanning 1000 years with a focus on the American Southwest.[25]
In November 2002 Sotheby's held an auction of 21 pieces from Weisel's 700 piece art collection, including pieces by artists Willem de Kooning, Franz Kline, Arshile Gorky, and Wayne Thiebaud.[26][27] The Sotheby's sale was expected to bring between $43 to $60 million, but realised $33 million on the night, with eight of the twenty-one works left unsold at the initial auction. The star piece was De Kooning's Orestes which sold for $13.2 million.[28]
In 2014, Weisel donated around 200 pieces of art from his Native American collection to the de Young Fine Arts museum in San Francisco, and in 2016, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art will rename three of its California art galleries after Weisel.[25] Weisel also endowed the SFMOMA's curator of painting and sculpture in 2014.[25] He has gifted or promised pieces to the SFMOMA and NYMOMA from his personal collection including works by Mark Grotjahn, Wayne Thiebaud, Joan Brown, Richard Serra, Andreas Gursky, Mark Bradford, Nathan Oliveira and Lee Mullican.[25]
In 2010, Weisel married his current wife, Janet Barnes. Barnes spent 25 years in the finance industry, and currently serves on the board of the de Young Museum of Fine Arts.[29] Outside of her professional roles, Barnes is also a mountain climber, skier, and cyclist.
Weisel has seven children. The oldest three children have completed graduate and post-graduate degrees, and are employed in real estate development, investing, and educational publishing. The middle two are currently attending school and are actively involved in sports. Weisel's son won the U18 National Slalom Championship in 2013 and is in his second year on the U.S. Ski Team.[30][31]
In 2003 Richard L. Brandt wrote a biography of Weisel, Capital Instincts: Life As an Entrepreneur, Financier, and Athlete.[4]
Thomas Weisel Website- http://thomas-weisel.com/

TITLE: Allen Drury
Allen Stuart Drury (September 2, 1918 – September 2, 1998) was an American novelist. He wrote the 1959 novel Advise and Consent, for which he won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1960.[1][2][3][4]
Drury was born on September 2, 1918, in Houston, Texas, to Alden Monteith Drury (1895-1975), a citrus industry manager, real estate broker, and insurance agent, and Flora Allen (1894-1973), a legislative representative for the California Parent-Teacher Association.[5] The family moved to Whittier, California, where Alden and Flora had a daughter, Anne Elizabeth (1924-1998).  Drury was a direct descendant of Hugh Drury (1616-1689)[6] and Lydia Rice (1627-1675), daughter of Edmund Rice (1594-1663), all of whom were early immigrants to Massachusetts Bay Colony.[7]
Allen Stuart Drury grew up in Porterville, California, and earned his B.A. at Stanford University, where he joined Alpha Kappa Lambda,  in 1939. He told Writer's Yearbook that he was "associate editor, wrote a column, and editorials."  [8] His last series of novels, written shortly before he died, were inspired by his experiences at Stanford. After graduating from Stanford, Drury went to work for the Tulare Bee in Porterville in 1940, where he won the Sigma Delta Chi Award for editorial writing from the Society of Professional Journalists.[5] He then moved to Bakersfield and wrote for the Bakersfield Californian, where he "handled what they called county news." [8] Drury enlisted in the U.S. Army on July 25, 1942, in Los Angeles and trained as an infantry soldier, but was discharged "because of an old back injury."[8][9]

In 1943, Drury moved to Washington.  "I went East and wound up in Washington, which fascinated me, and I thought I would get a job for about a year for experience before coming back to the coast.  I came back twenty years later, finally."[8]
From 1943-45, Drury worked as the United States Senate correspondent for United Press which, as he wrote, gave him the opportunity "to be of some slight assistance in making my fellow countrymen better acquainted with their Congress and particularly their Senate." He worked as a reporter, but also kept a journal in which he recorded the events of Congress as well as his impressions and views of individual senators and the Senate itself. Drury's journal followed the career of Harry S. Truman from junior senator to President of the United States, and also covered "President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his contentious relations with the Senate." The journal was published in 1963 as A Senate Journal 1943-45 after Drury had experienced great success with his 1959 novel Advise and Consent.[10]
After leaving United Press, he free-lanced for a year, writing a column for local papers in the West.  "This venture lasted about a year and did not succeed, as it does not for many people." [8]  He then moved to Pathfinder Magazine, a general news magazine.  From there, he moved to the Washington Evening Star, where he gained a reputation for the quality of his writing. Various pieces from this period were collected in a volume entitled Three Kids in a Cart.
In 1954 James Reston, the Washington bureau chief of The New York Times, hired Drury. Russell Baker, hired at about the same time, recalled the circumstances in a remembrance published after Drury's death:
He had a reputation as an elegant writer when he came to the paper. Scotty Reston was then trying to persuade The Times to write plain English, and it was assumed that Allen was brought in to promote this campaign ... He tried. The results depressed him. In those days plain English was under suspicion at The Times. Many stories read as if written by a Henry James imitator with a bad hangover. Incomprehensible English was accepted as evidence of the honest, if inarticulate, reporter; plain English bothered people.[11]In his spare time, Drury wrote the novel which would become 1959's Advise and Consent.[5] Drury later wrote a memorandum for his archives at the Hoover Institution in which he gives a full account of how the book came to be written and published.[12] Baker was one of the first people to read the manuscript and describes his initial reluctance and then reaction:
What lies I would be compelled to tell poor Allen ... The box weighed slightly less than a ton. The manuscript inside was typed not very well on long, legal-size paper. I took it home, ate, fixed a drink, sat down and with a heavy heart reached into the box for a fistful of manuscript. Good Lord! You couldn't put the thing down! I read half the book that night and finished it next day. My wife finished close behind, and the sight of her suppressing a tear at one point confirmed my hunch.The novel uses several incidents from Drury's fifteen years in Washington as pegs for the story, about a controversial nominee for Secretary of State. Addressing the suggestion that the book was a roman à clef, Drury wrote a very sharply worded preface which was only published in the new edition:
You will have to take the writer's word for it, because it is true. There are people and events in this book as in any that are akin to people and events in reality, but they are not the people and events of reality. Such resemblances as they do bear are transmuted through the observations and perceptions and understandings of the author into something far beyond and basically far different from the originals in the cases where originals can be argued to exist.[13]The novel spent 102 weeks on The New York Times Best Seller list.[1][14][15]  It won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1960.  It was adapted into a well-received Broadway play by Loring Mandel, who is known for a highly successful career writing for television.  Otto Preminger directed an acclaimed 1962 film starring Henry Fonda.[1][2][3][4] In 2009, Scott Simon of NPR wrote in The Wall Street Journal, "Fifty years after its publication and astounding success ... Allen Drury's novel remains the definitive Washington tale."[1] When it was republished, ABC News White House correspondent Jonathan Karl wrote for The Wall Street Journal that it offers "a compelling portrait of American social and political history and even today is well worth reading."[16]
With the success of Advise and Consent, Drury left The New York Times.  He became a political correspondent for Reader's Digest, but wrote very little for it.  From then on, his only major publications were his books. He followed Advise and Consent with several sequels. A Shade of Difference (1962) is set a year after Advise and Consent, and uses the United Nations as a backdrop for portraying racial tensions in the American South and in Africa.  Drury then turned his attention to the next presidential election after those events with Capable of Honor (1966) and Preserve and Protect (1968). Preserve and Protect had a cliffhanger ending—an assassination in which the victim is not identified.  He then wrote two alternative finales based on two different outcomes of the assassination: Come Nineveh, Come Tyre (1973) and The Promise of Joy (1975).[5] The last two books are set in the middle of a full international crisis.
In 1971, Drury published The Throne of Saturn, a political/science fiction novel about the first attempt at sending a manned mission to Mars in competition with a similar Soviet effort.[17] With the historical novel A God Against the Gods (1976) and its sequel Return to Thebes, Drury explored the reign and fall of Pharaoh Akhenaten of ancient Egypt.[18][19][20] The novels are based on extensive reading about the Amarna Period and, in the introduction to A God Against the Gods, he thanks at length the greatest Egyptologist of the time, Cyril Aldred, for his guidance on research. He disagreed with Aldred's view that Akhenaten's religious innovations were accepted by the supplanted religious authorities. Drury wrote, "I am afraid my own view, conditioned by some years as a political correspondent, is much more cynical concerning the lengths to which human beings, of whatever era, will go in order to get, and keep, power."[21]
After the Egypt novels, Drury returned to Washington in a succession of novels that were only tenuously related. Anna Hastings (1977) is more a novel about journalism than politics.[1][22] He returned to the Senate in 1979 with Mark Coffin, U.S.S., which was followed by the two-part The Hill of Summer (1981) and The Roads of Earth (1984), though the four books are not a series. Drury also wrote stand-alone novels, Decision (1983) about the Supreme Court,[2][23] and Pentagon (1986) and A Thing of State (1995) about the State Department.[24][25][26][27] His career ended with the trilogy of books following the lives of fictional members of his Stanford graduating class: Toward What Bright Glory? (1994), Into What Far Harbor?(1997), and Public Men (1998). John J. Miller wrote that readers are "able to mark through Washington's major institutions with Drury and his novels ... Television producers who want to develop a show to compete with Netflix's House of Cards would do well to look to Drury." [28]
Advise and Consent was out of print for almost 15 years and it ranked #27 on the 2013 BookFinder.com list of the Top 100 Most Searched for Out of Print Books before WordFire Press reissued it in paperback and e-book format in February 2014.[2][4][23][29] The WordFire edition includes never-before-published essays about the book written by Drury himself, new appendices, and remembrances by Drury's heirs and literary executors Kenneth and Kevin Killiany. WordFire also released Advise and Consent's five sequels, and other novels.[2][23]  WordFire is projected to ultimately bring out about 20 of Drury's novels.[28]
Drury lived in Tiburon, California, from 1964 until his death. He completed his 20th novel, Public Men, just two weeks before his death. He died of cardiac arrest on September 2, 1998, his 80th birthday, at St. Mary's Medical Center in San Francisco, California. Drury never married.[5]
Romance


TITLE: Vikram Seth
Vikram Seth CBE, FRSL (born 20 June 1952) is an Indian novelist and poet. He has written several novels and poetry books. He has received several awards such as Padma Shri, Sahitya Academy Award, Pravasi Bharatiya Samman, WH Smith Literary Award and Crossword Book Award. Seth's collections of poetry such as Mappings and Beastly Tales are notable contributions to the Indian English language poetry canon.[2]
Seth was born on 20 June 1952 in Calcutta. His father, Prem Nath Seth, was an executive of Bata Shoes and his mother, Leila Seth, a barrister by training, became the first female judge of the Delhi High Court and first woman to become Chief Justice of a state High Court in India.[3]
He received his primary education at St. Xavier's High School and St. Michael's High School in Patna.[4] He then went to The Doon School  in Dehradun, where he edited The Doon School Weekly.[5] (In 1992, he returned to Doon as the Founder's Day chief guest and in his speech, spoke openly of his "unhappy" times at school. While it surprised members of the community, it was also noted for its honesty, and was later included in The Penguin Book of Modern Indian Speeches: 1887 to Present.)[6][7][8]
After graduating from Doon, Seth went to Tonbridge School, England, to complete his A-levels.[9][10][11]  Later he read Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. He then pursued a Ph.D. in Economics at Stanford University though never completed it.[5][12][13] Seth has travelled widely, and has lived in India, China, Britain and California.
Seth has published eight books of poetry and three novels. In 1980, he wrote Mappings, his first book of poetry. The publication of A Suitable Boy, a 1,349-page novel, propelled Seth into the public limelight. His second novel is An Equal Music deals with the troubled love life of a violinist. Seth's work Two Lives published in 2005 is a memoir of the marriage of his great uncle and aunt.
In addition to The Golden Gate, Seth has written other works of poetry including Mappings (1980), The Humble Administrator's Garden (1985), All You Who Sleep Tonight (1990) and Three Chinese Poets (1992). His children's book, Beastly Tales from Here and There (1992) consists of ten stories about animals. He has authored a travel book, From Heaven Lake: Travels through Sinkiang and Tibet (1983), an account of a journey through Tibet, China and Nepal. He was also commissioned by the English National Opera to write a libretto based on the Greek legend of Arion and the Dolphin. The opera was performed for the first time in June 1994.
A sequel to A Suitable Boy, A Suitable Girl, was announced in 2009 but has yet to be published.
Seth's former literary agent Giles Gordon recalled being interviewed by Seth for the position, "Vikram sat at one end of a long table and he began to grill us. It was absolutely incredible. He wanted to know our literary tastes, our views on poetry, our views on plays, which novelists we liked".[14] Seth later explained to Gordon that he had passed the interview not because of commercial considerations, but because unlike the others he was the only agent who seemed as interested in his poetry as in his other writing. Seth followed what he has described as "the ludicrous advance for that book" (£250,000 for A Suitable Boy[15]) with £500,000 for An Equal Music and £1.4 million for Two Lives.[16] He prepared an acrostic poem[17] for his address at Gordon's 2005 memorial service.[18]
Seth was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2001.
Having lived in London for many years, Seth maintains residences near Salisbury, England, where he is a participant in local literary and cultural events, having bought and renovated the house of the Anglican poet George Herbert in 1996,[25] and in Jaipur, India.
In 2006, he became a leader of the campaign against Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, a law against sodomy.[26]

TITLE: Hans Fränkel
Hans Hermann Fränkel (19 December 1916 – 26 August 2003), usually Anglicized to Hans Frankel, was a German-American sinologist noted for his studies of Chinese poetry and literature and his 25-year tenure as professor of Chinese at Yale University.
Hans H. Frankel was born on 19 December 1916 in Berlin, Germany. His father, Hermann Fränkel, was a renowned scholar of Classical Latin and Greek. Because of the family's Jewish ancestry, the Fränkels fled to the United States during the Nazi Party's rise to power in the early 1930s. They settled in Palo Alto, California, where Hermann Fränkel became a professor of Classics at Stanford University.  Hans attended Stanford as an undergraduate, graduating with a B.A. in 1937.  He then attended the University of California, Berkeley as a graduate student, earning an M.A. in Spanish in 1938 and a Ph.D. in Romance literature in 1942.[1]
During World War II, Frankel worked for the US military as a translator of German, Spanish, and Italian.  Military commanders recognized his linguistic talents, and he was encouraged to begin studying Chinese.  After the war ended, Frankel moved to China, teaching Western languages at Peking University from 1947 to 1949.  While at Peking University, Frankel met Chang Ch'ung-ho, a well-known poet, calligrapher and kunqu opera singer.  They married in November 1948 and had two children.[1]
Frankel and his wife returned to the United States in 1949, where he lectured and did research at Berkeley.  He became an assistant professor of Chinese at Stanford in 1959, then went to Yale University in 1961, where he taught until his retirement in 1987.  He published a large number of books and articles on Chinese poetry and literature, and his translation of the Ballad of Mulan was used in Disney's 1998 animated film.[1]

TITLE: John H. Wilson (Hawaii politician)
John Henry Wilson (December 15, 1871 – July 3, 1956), was a civil engineer, insurgent, co-founder of the Democratic Party of Hawaii, and Mayor of Honolulu, Hawaii three times:  from 1920 to 1927, from 1929 to 1931, and from 1946 to 1954.
Wilson was born in Honolulu, Hawaii in 1871. His father was Charles B. Wilson (1850–1926), whose ethnic background was Scottish and Tahitian. C.B. Wilson was superintendent of the water works and fire chief under King Kalākaua, and was Marshal of the Kingdom under Queen Liliʻuokalani.[2]
His mother was three quarters of European descent and one quarter Hawaiian Eveline M. "Kitty or Kittie" Townsend, granddaughter of Captain Henry Blanchard of the ship Thaddeus which had brought the first missionaries of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions to Hawaii in 1820.
Wilson attended the Fort Street School and St. Alban's College. After graduating, he worked odd jobs on the West Coast, Hawaii, and Alaska. A construction job that he took in 1890 with Oahu Railway & Land led him to pursue civil engineering as a career.  With financial support from the Queen, he enrolled at Stanford University in 1891. However, lack of funds after the overthrow of the monarchy in 1893 forced him to leave Stanford in 1894. While on the mainland he was approached by revolutionaries looking for suppliers for the 1895 Counter-Revolution in Hawaii, and attempt to restore the monarchy. He took part in the smuggling of guns and ammunition to Maui as part of the arms buildup by rebel forces. After the failed revolution he spoke little about his role in fearing he would be arrested for treason. He admitted he smuggled guns and was of rank to participate in planning his mission. He planned to land a ship of insurgents from Maui to attack Honolulu, but was the mission was aborted after the revolution was exposed and martial law was activated.
In 1896 he once again joined Oahu Railway & Land and worked on a survey for a carriage road over the Nuʻuanu Pali. Armed with this knowledge, he and fellow Stanford student Louis Whitehouse bid for and won the contract to build the road, completing the road in January 1898.
Wilson served as roads engineer for both Maui and Honolulu counties. He was in a meeting on April 30, 1900 that organized the Democratic Party of Hawaii. He married hula practitioner Kini Kapahu on May 8, 1909. They moved to Molokaʻi and lived in the Pelekunu Valley before returning to Honolulu in 1919.[3]
His first political campaign was for a seat in the Territorial Senate in 1918, which he lost.  However, upon the death of Mayor Joseph J. Fern in 1920, Wilson was selected by the Board of Supervisors to succeed him.
Wilson served three times as mayor, from 1920 to 1927, 1929 to 1931, and from 1946 to 1954, a total of 19 years. As mayor, Wilson oversaw the completion of Honolulu Hale, which was completed in 1929 and consolidated the functions of the city's government. He also served on some territorial commissions, including coordinating the state holiday, Kamehameha Day, until 1956.[4]
Following World War II Wilson considered retirement he had been de facto leader of the Democratic Party of the original five founders only two remained. David Kawānanakoa died in 1908, John S. McGrew died in 1911, and Charles J. McCarthy died in 1929. Delbert E. Metzger was a Federal Judge and powerful Democrat but his judicial career reduced his participation in politics this left Wilson as leader. Wilson preferred to leave the party in good hands. An ambitious detective named John A. Burns emerged as a successor Wilson could pass the torch to.
In his 80s, Wilson was once again a revolutionary as a key member of a nonviolent revolution called the Democratic Revolution of 1954 that brought his party to power. The early Democrats held a dislike toward Asian-Americans as threats to Hawaiians and the social demographics of Hawaii. But unlike his colleagues, Wilson himself an early Democrat and part-Hawaiian, allowed passage of 442nd veterans into the party, such as Daniel Inouye and Spark Matsunaga. He lived long enough to see the party that had overthrown the monarchy be dethroned themselves, and to some extent accomplishing what he failed in 1895. During this turbulent time Democrats were divided between right-wing "Walkouts" led by Ingram Stainback and the left-wing "Standpats" led by Burns, Wilson was a Standpat. A damaging letter written by Wilson criticizing non-Hawaii-born Democrats alluding to Stainback was considered the major factor in his loss to Republican Neal Blaisdell.
During the late 1950s, Wilson advocated that the territorial government build a tunnel through the Koʻolau Mountains from Honolulu to Kaneohe through Kalihi Valley.  The territorial government, however, opted to build the tunnel through the Nuʻuanu Pali.  The city eventually proceeded with plans to build a second set of tunnels through Kalihi Valley, which opened in 1961, five years after Wilson's death.  The tunnels were named the John H. Wilson Tunnels in his honor.

TITLE: Amy Biehl
Amy Elizabeth Biehl (April 26, 1967 – August 25, 1993) was an American graduate of Stanford University and an Anti-Apartheid activist in South Africa who was murdered by Cape Town residents while a black mob shouted anti-white slurs. The four men convicted of her murder were pardoned by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
Biehl was a student at the University of the Western Cape in Cape Town as a scholar in the Fulbright Program.[1]:71
As she drove three friends home to the township of Gugulethu, outside Cape Town, on August 25, 1993, a mob pulled her from the car and stabbed and stoned her to death.[2][3] The attack on the car driven by her was one of many incidents of general lawlessness on the NY1 road that afternoon. Bands of toyi-toying youths threw stones at delivery vehicles and cars driven by white people. One delivery vehicle was toppled over and set alight, and only the arrival of the police prevented more damage. There was evidence that some of the possessions belonging to her and the passengers were stolen.[4]
According to Rex van Schalkwyk, in his 1998 book One Miracle Is Not Enough, "Supporters of the three men accused of murdering [her]… burst out laughing in the public gallery of the Supreme Court today when a witness told how the battered woman groaned in pain." (pp. 188–89.) Four people were convicted of killing her.[5]:17–18
In 1998, all were pardoned by South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, when they stated that their actions had been politically motivated.[1]:71
Biehl's family supported the release of the men.[1]:71 Her father shook their hands and stated,
The most important vehicle of reconciliation is open and honest dialogue... we are here to reconcile a human life [that] was taken without an opportunity for dialogue. When we are finished with this process we must move forward with linked arms.[6]In 1994, Biehl's parents, Linda and Peter, founded the Amy Biehl Foundation Trust to develop and empower youth in the townships, in order to discourage further violence.[5]:17–18 Two of the men who had been convicted of her murder worked for the foundation as part of its programs.[5]:17–18 In 1999, Biehl's parents were honored with the Aline and Norman Felton Humanitarian Award.[7]
In his speech accepting the Congressional Gold Medal on 23 September 1998, Nelson Mandela said:
Among those we remember today is young Amy Biehl. She made our aspirations her own and lost her life in the turmoil of our transition, as the new South Africa struggled to be born in the dying moments of apartheid. Through her, our peoples have also shared the pain of confronting a terrible past, as we take the path towards the reconciliation and healing of our nation.[8]On August 25, 2010, on the 17th anniversary of Biehl's death, a bronze plaque mounted on a stone was unveiled by the U.S. Ambassador, Donald Gips, and Biehl's mother, Linda Biehl, at the Cape Town site where she was killed.[9]
The novel "Mother to Mother" by Sindiwe Magona refers to Amy Biehl's death from the perspective of the mother of one of Biehl's killers.[10][11]
August 25, 2013, marked the 20th anniversary of Amy Biehl's death and a ceremony was held at the Cape Town site where she was killed in Gugulethu.[12]
Amy Biehl High School in Albuquerque, New Mexico is named in her honour. Amy Biehl Community School at Rancho Viejo in Santa Fe, New Mexico is also named after her.[13]
Biehl's uncle was teacher Dale Shewalter.[14]

TITLE: Hanna Rosin
Hanna Rosin /ˈhɑːnə/ (born 1970)[2] is an Israeli-born American writer. She is the co-host of the NPR podcast Invisibilia with Alix Spiegel.[3] She is co-founder of DoubleX, a women's site connected to the online magazine Slate.[4]
Rosin writes for The Atlantic, and has written for The Washington Post, The New Yorker, GQ, New York and The New Republic. She is the author of God's Harvard (2007) and The End of Men: And the Rise of Women (2012).
Rosin was born in Israel but grew up in Queens, where her father was a taxi driver.[4][5] She is Jewish.[6]    She graduated from Stuyvesant High School in 1987, where she won a number of competitions on the debate team with her partner David Coleman.[7]  She attended Stanford University, and is married to former Atlas Obscura CEO David Plotz; they live in Washington, D.C. with their three children.[8]
Rosin is a co-founder of Slate magazine's DoubleX, a women's site.[4] She is also a writer for The Atlantic. She has written for The Washington Post, The New Yorker, GQ and New York after beginning her career as a staff writer for The New Republic. Rosin has also appeared on The Daily Show and The Colbert Report on Comedy Central.
A character portrayed by actress Chloë Sevigny in the 2003 film Shattered Glass about Rosin's colleague at The New Republic, Stephen Glass, was loosely based on Rosin.[9][10]
Rosin has published a book based on her 2010 Atlantic story, The End of Men.[11] She gave a TED talk on the subject in 2010.[12] In this work she details the emergence of women as a powerful force of the American workplace. For Rosin, this shifting economy has allowed women to use their most gendered stereotypical strengths to succeed.[13]
In the past she has specialized in writing about religious-political issues, in particular the influence of evangelical Christians on the 2004 U.S. presidential campaign.[14] She is the author of God's Harvard: A Christian College on a Mission to Save America, published in September 2007. Based on a New Yorker story, the book follows several young Christians at Patrick Henry College, a new evangelical institution that teaches its students to "lead [the] nation and shape [the] culture."
In 2009, she published a controversial article in The Atlantic entitled "The Case Against Breast-Feeding," questioning whether current social pressures in favor of breastfeeding were appropriate, and whether the science in support of the practice was conclusive.[15] In 2009 she was nominated for a National Magazine Award for "Boy's Life",[16] a story about a young transgender girl. In 2010 she won the award for her contribution to a package of stories in New York magazine about circumcision.[17] Her stories have also been included in anthologies of Best American Magazine Writing 2009 and Best American Crime Reporting 2009.[18][19]
On February 27, 2012, following the death of children's author Jan Berenstain, Rosin wrote an article critical of the Berenstain Bears series of books and said "good riddance" to the beloved children's author. After negative public reaction to her use of the phrase "good riddance," Rosin issued an apology.[20]

TITLE: David Campos
David Campos (born September 28, 1970),[1] is an attorney and former member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors representing San Francisco's District 9 (Bernal Heights, Portola, and the Inner Mission) from 2008 to 2016 when he termed out. His reelection in 2012 made him one of only two LGBT San Francisco supervisors. In 2014, Campos ran for the California State Assembly seat in the 17th District (eastern half of San Francisco), but lost to David Chiu.[2] On March 13, 2017, Campos was appointed as a Deputy County Executive for Santa Clara County.[3]
David Campos was born in Puerto Barrios, Guatemala.[4] His father was a meteorologist.[5] His family first tried to cross the border when David was 11, but they were caught and deported. Around 1983, his father made it across the border and went to Los Angeles, where he became a carpenter.[6] In 1985, at age 14, with his mother and two sisters, he fled Guatemala and emigrated illegally to the United States.[7] Campos graduated at the top of his class at Jefferson High School in South Central Los Angeles.[4] He earned scholarships and admissions to Stanford University, from which he graduated in 1993 with a degree in political science.[7] While attending Harvard Law School from 1993 to 1996, Campos became a permanent resident of the United States[7] and met his partner, Phil Hwang. They married in 2014.[8]
After three years of private law practice, Campos became Deputy City Attorney for the City and County of San Francisco in 1999.[9] During his tenure he was chief attorney for San Francisco Unified School District overseeing its school desegregation program.[4] Campos was also appointed as a San Francisco Police Commissioner from 2005-2008.[9]
In 2008, David Campos was elected to the San Francisco Board of Supervisors, representing District 9 (Bernal Heights, Portola, and the Inner Mission), succeeding newly-elected State Assemblymember Tom Ammiano.
Mayor Gavin Newsom appointed Campos to the vacant supervisorial seat on December 4, 2008, one month before the other freshman supervisors were elected in November 2008.[10] His predecessor, Ammiano, had resigned from the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in early December to start his tenure at the  California State Assembly.
In 1989, San Francisco passed the "City and County of Refuge" Ordinance (also known as the Sanctuary Ordinance) which prohibits City employees from helping Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) with immigration investigations or arrests unless such help is required by federal or state law or a warrant.[11]
In 2008, following the arrest of undocumented youth Edwin Ramos for a triple murder, Gavin Newsom amended the sanctuary city policy of San Francisco to allow the city to refer juvenile undocumented immigrants convicted of felonies to federal authorities for deportation.[12] San Francisco had also been referring such youth arrested but not yet tried in court to federal authorities.[13]
Supervisor Campos introduced legislation in August 2009 that sought to protect undocumented alien youths from deportation and separation from their families by the San Francisco police. The legislation would have required local authorities to wait for a criminal conviction before turning youth over to ICE.[1][13] In an editorial for the "San Francisco Chronicle", Campos stated that his proposal "strikes a balance between the former city policy that failed to report people who should have been reported, and the current one, which in essence violates the right of these young people to a hearing on the accusations against them and can ultimately tear them from the protection of their families" and that he believed "every person has the right to a hearing before being punished and is innocent until proven guilty."[14]
Supervisor Campos and local community activists including P.O.W.E.R. (People Organized to Win Employment Rights) and CCDC (Chinatown Community Development Center) are credited with providing free local public transportation to San Francisco youth.[15] San Francisco residents from low-income communities were outraged after San Francisco Unified School District (SFUSD) decided to significantly reduce the use of school buses for transporting students to and from school.[16] Campos argued, "In the midst of this affordability crisis, we know that low and moderate income families, youth, seniors and people with disabilities are struggling more than ever, and making public transportation affordable and accessible is one step towards alleviating some of the financial stress people are experiencing." [15]
On March 1, 2013, the San Francisco Municipal Transit Authority (SFMTA) launched the Free MUNI for Low Income Youth Pilot Program. The 16-month pilot program waived MUNI fares for low- and moderate-income youth residents of San Francisco between the ages of 5 and 18. To qualify for free passes, families must make less than the average income in the Bay Area, which the SFMTA puts at $82,400 for a family of two and $103,000 for a family of four.[17]
The SFMTA decided to renew the program in response to the pilot program’s success.  According to preliminary data by the Office of the Mayor, Free Muni for Low Income Youth had a positive impact on San Francisco’s transportation network. In addition, Clipper card data showed 266,000 more rides by youth Muni riders in May 2013 than in May 2012. Approximately 45 percent of Free Muni for Low Income Youth participants plan to ride public transportation as an adult, while 70 percent would recommend Muni to their friends, according to the San Francisco Unified School District Student Survey results.[18]
This success has also inspired Google to contribute $6.8 million and support these efforts for two years.[18]
Since it opened in 2011, the San Francisco Planned Parenthood sought to prevent protests by anti-abortion activists.[19] According to proponents of the ordinance, protesters were obscuring access to the clinics with large signs, and taking pictures and video of anyone entering the clinic. At that time abortions accounted for less than 2 percent of patient visits.[20]
In May 2013, the San Francisco Board of Supervisors unanimously passed Campos’s Health Care Access Buffer Zone legislation.[21] The legislation created a 25-foot harassment free buffer zone around all free-standing health clinics in the city. The penalty for encroaching the buffer zone is up to a $1,000 fine or three months in jail.[22] The ordinance also expands the federal Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act, which makes it a federal offense to use physical force or intimidation to prevent a person from entering a reproductive health care facility.
In September 2012, San Francisco's supervisors voted 8-3 to approve Campos’s CleanPowerSF legislation. CleanPowerSF is a publicly owned clean energy program that allow residents to choose to buy electricity generated from renewable source rather than from PG&E, the dominant utility in the city.[23] Ultimately, the plan will use the program’s revenue stream to help construct the city’s own renewable energy infrastructure, including wind and solar generators.[24]
In April 2016, Campos introduced legislation that would fine short-term rental companies such as Airbnb $1000 a day for each listing that wasn't registered with the City of San Francisco. City law requires that all short-term rentals be registered.[25] After the Board of Supervisors approved the legislation, Airbnb sued the City, claiming that the law violated the Communications Decency Act, which prohibits the government from holding websites accountable for the content published by users.[26]  Campos then introduced new amendments to the legislation to attempt to address the challenges in the lawsuit.[27]
On August 1, 2013, Campos filed papers at San Francisco City Hall to run for the California State Assembly seat in the 17th District (eastern half of San Francisco). If he had been elected, Campos would have been the first Latino to represent San Francisco in the State Assembly.[9] If elected, he would have been the fourth consecutive LGBT public officials to serve San Francisco in the State Assembly, starting with Carole Migden (1996-2002) and continuing with Mark Leno (2002-2008) and Tom Ammiano (2008-2014).
Campos advanced to the general election with David Chiu in the primary on Tuesday, June 3, 2014, with 43 percent of the vote. Chiu won 48 percent of the vote and Republican candidate David Salaverry won 8.5 percent.[28] Chiu beat Campos in the general election with 51 percent of the vote.
In March of 2017 Campos was named one of seven deputy executives for Santa Clara County. The job pays $240,000 a year. "I will likely be working on LGBT, immigration, housing and health care,” Campos said of his new job.[29]

TITLE: Alexander Payne
Constantine Alexander Payne (/peɪn/; born February 10, 1961) is an American film director, screenwriter, and producer, known for the films Election (1999), About Schmidt (2002), Sideways (2004), The Descendants (2011), Nebraska (2013), and Downsizing (2017). His films are noted for their dark humor and satirical depictions of contemporary American society. Payne is a two-time winner of the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay, and a three-time nominee of the Academy Award for Best Director. In 2017, Metacritic ranked Payne 2nd on its list of the 25 best film directors of the 21st century.[1]
Payne was born in Omaha, Nebraska, to Peggy (née Constantine) and George Payne, restaurant owners.[2][3][4] He is the youngest of three sons[5] and grew up in what is now known as the Dundee-Happy Hollow Historic District, the same neighborhood as billionaire Warren Buffett.
His father is of Greek and German descent, and his mother is of Greek ancestry.[6][7] Payne's paternal grandfather, Nicholas "Nick" Payne, anglicized the last name from Papadopoulos.[8] His family comes from three areas in Greece: the island of Syros, Livadia, and Aegio.[9]
Payne's family was part of the fabric of Omaha, which he references as part of his upbringing.[10][11] His grandfather was a founder of The Virginia Cafe, with Payne's father taking over the restaurant. Payne went there regularly as a child. The restaurant was destroyed in a fire in 1969; the W. Dale Clark Library is now located on the site.[10]
Payne's paternal grandmother, Clara Payne (née Hoffman), was from a German Nebraska family from Lincoln, Nebraska.[11]
In Omaha, Payne attended Brownell-Talbot School, Dundee Elementary School, and Lewis and Clark Junior High. He graduated from Creighton Prep for high school in 1979.[12] At Prep, Payne wrote a humor column for his high school newspaper and was the editor of the high school yearbook.[13]
Payne then attended Stanford University, where he double majored in Spanish and history.[8] As a part of his Spanish degree, he studied at Spain's University of Salamanca. He later lived a few months in Medellin, Colombia, where he published an article about social changes between 1900 and 1930.[14] Payne received his MFA in 1990 from the UCLA Film School.
In the 1960s, Payne's father received a Super 8mm projector from Kraft Foods as a loyalty reward,[4][15] and eventually passed it on to his son when Alexander was about 14 years old.[13][16][17]
A short time after getting his MFA from UCLA Film School—and after his successful thesis film, The Passion of Martin had attracted industry attention—Payne got a writing/directing deal with Universal Pictures. The ensuing screenplay, which was turned down, would ultimately become About Schmidt.[8] He says that he cleared about $60,000, which was enough to fund his simple lifestyle at the time for about five years.[7]
Payne has said he sees his talent as being one of learned economy, referring to the essay written by Tennessee Williams on The Catastrophe of Success.[17]
Payne worked in various capacities on films and television before he co-wrote and directed his first full-length film, Citizen Ruth (1996).
His second film, Election, starring Matthew Broderick and Reese Witherspoon, which takes aim at politics and education in America, attracted attention when New Yorker film critic David Denby named it the best film of 1999. Payne was nominated for an Academy Award for Writing Adapted Screenplay for Election.
In 2003 he received a Golden Globe for his screenplay for About Schmidt, which was also nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. To the surprise of many who kept track of Hollywood news,[18][19] Payne and his writing partner Jim Taylor were not nominated for an Oscar for the About Schmidt screenplay.
He won both the Academy Award and Golden Globe in 2005 for Best Adapted Screenplay for Sideways, while the film also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. In total, Sideways received five Academy Award nominations.
Payne returned to directing in 2011 after a seven-year hiatus with the film The Descendants, starring George Clooney. He also co-wrote the screenplay, winning the Oscar for Best Adapted Screenplay.
Payne's Nebraska, starred veteran character actor Bruce Dern and SNL comedian Will Forte.[20] It was released on November 15, 2013.[21]
Payne has said that during his seven-year hiatus between Sideways (2004) and The Descendants (2011), he, along with working partner Jim Taylor, were developing the satire Downsizing, which Payne has described as "a large canvas, science-fiction social satire" and "an epic masterpiece."  The film, about an impoverished married couple who decide the way ahead lies in shrinking themselves, was to star Paul Giamatti and Reese Witherspoon, but was superseded by The Descendants and Nebraska.[22][23] In March 2016, Witherspoon was replaced by Kristen Wiig and Giamatti by Matt Damon.[24] Hong Chau, Christoph Waltz, Udo Kier, Neil Patrick Harris, and Jason Sudeikis also starred.[25] Paramount Pictures released the film on December 22, 2017.[26][27] It has received mixed reviews, with many critics describing it as the weakest film of Payne's career.[28]
Payne executive produced the short film Run Fast. Anna Musso, his long-time assistant and protege, wrote and directed the film, which shot in March 2014. The project was partially funded by a Kickstarter campaign.[29]
In 2000, he did an uncredited polish-up of the screenplay for the comedy hit Meet the Parents. In 2001, Payne wrote a draft of Jurassic Park III.
Payne served as an executive producer on the films King of California and The Savages. He also teamed up once again with writing partner Jim Taylor to write a draft of the screenplay for the film I Now Pronounce You Chuck and Larry, a comedy directed by Dennis Dugan, and starring Adam Sandler and Kevin James. Payne disliked the final product, stating that Adam Sandler rewrote so much of the story that almost all of what Payne and Taylor wrote was gone.
Payne was also executive producer of the acclaimed 2014 film Kumiko, the Treasure Hunter directed by David Zellner.
He was scheduled to direct a film produced for Netflix based on the life of Norwegian author Karl Ove Knausgard starring Mads Mikkelsen, but in October 2019 the production was cancelled a week before filming was to begin due to Knausgard objecting to his life story being turned into a feature film.[30]
Payne's films often revolve around middle-aged or older men who reach a breaking point in their lives, enter into transformative existential crises, and then emerge in the end as changed people, for better or worse. Some unexpected life experience forces the central male figure to "crack" and see the world in a new and surprising way. This theme appears in Election, About Schmidt, Sideways, The Descendants, and to a lesser extent in Nebraska, via the son, one of two main characters. His movies also tend to involve infidelity, road trips or travel, tragedy, despair, disappointment, and crises of masculinity. He has set many of his films in Omaha, his hometown. His films sometimes include scenes of historical landmarks, black and white photographs, and museums, and he often uses  amateur actors for minor roles.[8][31]
Payne is on the short list of directors who have final cut rights for their films.[32]
In 2005, he became a member of the Board of Governors of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (Directors Branch).
Payne married Canadian actress Sandra Oh on January 1, 2003, after dating her for three years, and directing her in Sideways. On March 12, 2005, a publicist announced their separation. The divorce was officially finalized on December 22, 2006,[33] although the former couple took more than two years to settle their finances.[34][35][36] In 2015, Payne married Maria Kontos, a Greek philologist he met while visiting the Aigio region of Greece where some of his ancestors originated.[37] He became a father for the first time at the age of 56 in 2017.[38]
Payne is on the Board of Directors of an Omaha non-profit film theater, Film Streams.[8] He maintains a passion for preservation. In recent years, he helped preserve a historic film theater in Scottsbluff, Nebraska.[39]
Payne was co-owner (along with friend Ann Beeder) of King Fong (now permanently closed), a Chinese restaurant in Omaha.[40]
Payne is a long-time supporter[41] of the Nebraska Coast Connection, a social networking organization that meets monthly in Culver City, CA. In November 2013, he held a special screening of Nebraska for the group's members at the Sherry Lansing Theatre on the Paramount Studio's lot.[42]
Executive producer
Producer only
In 2012, he was named as a member of the Jury for the Main Competition at the 2012 Cannes Film Festival.[43] His 2013 film Nebraska was nominated for the Palme d'Or at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival.[44] With his Academy Award nomination for Nebraska in 2014, Payne has been nominated seven times, winning the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay twice.
In 2014, The Location Managers Guild of America honored Alexander with their inaugural Eva Monley Award for his masterful use of location as another character.
Levinson, Julie, ed. Alexander Payne Interviews. University Press of Mississippi, 2014. http://www.upress.state.ms.us/books/1941
Levinson, Julie, ed. Alexander Payne Interviews. University Press of Mississippi, 2014. http://www.upress.state.ms.us/books/1714

TITLE: Paul G. Cassell
Paul George Cassell (born 1959) is a former United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the District of Utah, who is currently the Ronald N. Boyce Presidential Professor of Criminal Law and University Distinguished Professor of Law at the S.J. Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah. He is best known as an expert in, and proponent of, victims' rights.
Born in Orange, California in 1959, Cassell received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Stanford University in 1979.[1] He later received a Juris Doctor from Stanford Law School in 1984 and served as President of the Stanford Law Review. He was also a law clerk for Antonin Scalia, then a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, from 1984 to 1985. He was a law clerk for Chief Justice Warren E. Burger from 1985 to 1986. He was then an associate deputy attorney general in the United States Department of Justice from 1986 to 1988, and an Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia from 1988 to 1991. He was a professor of law at the S.J. Quinney College of Law at the University of Utah from 1992 to 2002 and since 2007.
On September 4, 2001, Cassell was nominated by President George W. Bush to a seat on the United States District Court for the District of Utah vacated by David Sam.[2] Cassell was confirmed by the United States Senate on May 13, 2002,[3] and received his commission on May 15, 2002. While serving as a judge, Cassell wrote several opinions that received widespread attention, including the first detailed district court opinion to declare the federal sentencing guidelines unconstitutional and a lengthy opinion decrying a fifty-five year mandatory minimum prison sentence he was compelled to impose for a low-level drug dealer, Weldon Angelos. Cassell later wrote a letter to President Obama requesting a sentence commutation, and thereafter prosecutors agreed to release Angelos. In 2005, Chief Justice Rehnquist appointed Cassell to serve  as the Chair of the federal Judicial Conference's Committee on Criminal Law.  On November 5, 2007, Cassell resigned his judicial position to return to teaching at the S.J. Quinney College of Law.
Cassell has been a leading spokesperson for protecting the rights of crime victims during the criminal justice process.  Cassell was involved in supporting Utah’s Crime Victims’ Rights Amendment, which was passed in 1994.  In 1996, Cassell represented victims and surviving family members of the Oklahoma City bombing in efforts to obtain access to court proceedings.  In 2008, Cassell unsuccessfully appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, seeking crime victims’ rights for Sue and Ken Antrobus, whose daughter was murdered in a massacre at the Trolley Square shopping center in Salt Lake City.  The Tenth Circuit said that the issue was a “difficult” one, with one judge dissenting.  Also in 2008, Cassell obtained a decision from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit that the rights of victims of 2005 BP oil refinery explosion in Texas City, Texas, were violated when prosecutors negotiated a plea bargain.  In 2012, Cassell successfully appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, obtaining a ruling that lead to a district court decision that affected community members from pollution discharges by CITGO were “victims” under the Crime Victims’ Rights Act.  In 2014, Cassell argued on behalf of a child pornography victim (“Amy”) before the United States Supreme Court, arguing that she should receive extensive restitution. In 2018, Cassell filed a petition on behalf of four “Jane Does” urging the Utah Supreme Court to appoint special prosecutors to pursue four rape cases. Cassell has testified before congressional committees several times, supporting an amendment to the United States Constitution protecting crime victims’ rights. Recently, Cassell has advocated on behalf of Marsy's Laws in various states. Cassell is also a co-author of a law school casebook on crime victims’ rights, Victims In Criminal Procedure.
Cassell is a proponent of capital punishment[4] and has litigated for a victim’s family in a death penalty case.
Cassell is part of the legal team in an ongoing lawsuit against the United States by several alleged victims of registered sex offender Jeffrey Epstein, in violation of their rights under the Crime Victims' Rights Act.
A December 30, 2014 filing in a federal civil suit in Florida against the United States for violations of the Crime Victims' Rights Act alleged that the United States, in giving Epstein a plea bargain in 2008, violated his victims' rights under the Crime Victims' Rights Act. The filing accused Alan Dershowitz, a lawyer who represented Epstein in his 2008 plea deal, of sexually abusing a minor provided by Epstein. The United Kingdom's Prince Andrew is also alleged to have had sex with underage girls provided by Epstein. Both have denied the charges.[5][6][7] Dershowitz threatened disbarment proceedings against Cassell and another lawyer on the alleged victim's legal team, challenging their filing on behalf of the victim.[8] Cassell countered: "We carefully investigate all of the allegations in our pleadings before presenting them. We have also tried to depose Mr. Dershowitz on these subjects, although he has avoided those deposition requests."[9] Cassell and another lawyer filed a defamation lawsuit, and the case ultimately settled on confidential terms. The Jane Doe #1 and Jane Doe #2 lawsuit regarding crime victim's rights remains pending in Florida.
Cassell has argued that state exclusionary rules, including the rule implied in the Utah Constitution, unfairly harm victims’ of crime.  In 2017, Justice Lee of the Utah Supreme Court agreed with this view, citing Cassell, while the remaining Justices did not reach the issue.
Cassell has recently defended pro-active law enforcement investigation techniques, arguing that the 2016 Chicago homicide spike harmed many victims and was attributable to an “ACLU effect” restricting stop-and-frisk by Chicago police officers. While the argument has been disputed, Attorney General Jeff Sessions has cited it as a well-founded analysis.
Cassell has also questioned the frequency with which innocent persons have been wrongfully convicted for crimes they did not commit, calling for close scrutiny of cases involving especially vulnerable defendants rather than a general approach to the issue.
Cassell has also successfully served as a defense attorney in several cases where police officers were charged with crimes
Cassell has been a leading critic of the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Miranda v. Arizona. In 2002, the Supreme Court invited Cassell to argue in defense of a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, which had held that a federal statute had superseded the requirements of the decision. A majority of the Court ultimately rejected Cassell's argument, with Justices Scalia and Thomas dissenting to endorse the position. Cassell has published a detailed empirical analysis concerning the harmful effects of the Miranda decision, including a lengthy 2017 co-authored law review article containing regression analysis linking declining crime clearance rates after the Miranda decision to the restrictions imposed on police.

TITLE: John Jay O'Connor
John Jay O'Connor III (January 10, 1930 – November 11, 2009) was an American lawyer and the husband of United States Supreme Court Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, the first woman to serve on the court.[1] O'Connor, a prominent lawyer in Arizona, suffered from Alzheimer's disease during his later life.  His illness played a significant role in Sandra Day O'Connor's decision in 2005 to retire from the Supreme Court.[1]
O'Connor was born on January 10, 1930, in San Francisco, California.[1] His parents were John Jay O'Connor II and Sally Flynn O'Connor.[1] He was of Irish Catholic descent and attended Saint Ignatius High School in San Francisco.  He obtained his bachelor's degree from Stanford University in 1951, and later received a law degree, also from Stanford, in 1953.[1]
O'Connor met his future wife, Sandra Day of Arizona, while both were law review editors and students at Stanford Law School.[1] The couple married in 1952.[1]
O'Connor served within the U.S. Army Judge Advocate General's Corp following his graduation from law school. He was stationed in Frankfurt, West Germany, from 1954 until 1956. Ms O'Connor was employed in the Quartermaster Corps as a civilian lawyer.[1]
O'Connor returned to the United States and moved to Phoenix, Arizona.  There he joined the law firm of Fennemore, Craig, von Ammon, McClennen & Udall.[1] Following Sandra Day O'Connor's appointment to the United States Supreme Court by President Ronald Reagan, O'Connor moved with his family to Washington, D.C.  He continued to practice law with two firms, Miller & Chevalier and Bryan Cave, while living in Washington.[1]
O'Connor was diagnosed with Alzheimer's nearly twenty years before his death.[1] His deteriorating health played a significant role in Sandra Day O'Connor's decision to retire from the Supreme Court in 2005.[1]
O'Connor died of Alzheimer's disease on November 11, 2009, in Phoenix, Arizona, at the age of 79.[1]

TITLE: Victor Grinich
Victor Henry Grinich (November 26, 1924 – November 4, 2000) was a pioneer in the semiconductor industry and a member of the "traitorous eight" that founded Silicon Valley.
Born to Croatian immigrant parents, his original surname was Grgurinovic. Born in Aberdeen, Washington, he served in the United States Navy during World War II.[citation needed] To make his last name easier to pronounce during military roll calls, he officially changed it to "Grinich".[citation needed]
Grinich received a bachelor's degree from the University of Washington in 1946 and a master's degree in 1949, and then earned a Ph.D. in 1951 from Stanford University.[1]
Initially a researcher at SRI International, he worked at the seminal Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory of Beckman Instruments, and then left with other disgruntled members of the "traitorous eight" to create the influential Fairchild Semiconductor corporation.[2]
Among the physicists, mathematicians and metallurgists in the group, Grinich was the only electrical engineer.[3] At Fairchild he set up the test lab and other electronic systems where he was responsible for device characterization and applications. His department grew into the important Fairchild Instrumentation business.[citation needed]
Grinich left Fairchild in 1968 to study computer science while teaching electrical engineering at UC Berkeley. He later taught at Stanford University as well.[4] In 1975, he published a textbook, Introduction to Integrated Circuits.[5]
In 1978, he was appointed chief executive officer of Identronix, a company that pioneered Radio-frequency identification systems, which are now used extensively in anti-theft tags. In 1985, Grinich founded and became CEO of Escort Memory Systems to commercialize RFID tags for industrial applications. EMS was acquired by Datalogic in 1989.[6]
In 1993, he co-founded Arkos Design, a manufacturer of emulators. The company was acquired by Synopsys in 1995.[7] Grinich retired in 1997 and died of prostate cancer in 2000, three weeks before his 76th birthday.

TITLE: Joe Simitian
Saren Joseph Simitian (born February 1, 1953) is a California Democratic politician. From 2004 to 2012, he was the State Senator representing California's 11th State Senate district, which encompasses all or part of 13 cities in San Mateo, Santa Clara, and Santa Cruz counties.[1] Approaching his term limit at the end of 2012, he ran for and was elected as a Santa Clara County Supervisor.[2] He was re-elected to the same seat in 2016.
Simitian's legislative and supervisorial record includes work on housing affordability, healthcare, government accountability, education, environmental protection, energy/climate, consumer protection, privacy, and highway safety. Simitian has been recognized as "one of the most effective legislators in Sacramento,"[3] and has been commended for improving educational access and housing for low-income families.[4]
In the state legislature, Simitian chaired the California Senate Environmental Quality Committee and the Budget Subcommittee No. 2 on Resources. He is the author of California's 20% renewable energy portfolio standard and California's data breach notification law, which requires companies and agencies to notify individuals when their personal information is compromised.[5] Simitian also authored several high-profile transportation safety laws, including California's hands-free cell phone bill.[6][7]
Joe Simitian is married to Mary Hughes, a Bay Area political consultant. Simitian proposed to Hughes on election night in 1996 upon being elected to the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors.[8]
Joe Simitian served as President of the Palo Alto School Board from 1983 to 1991.[9] He was on the Palo Alto City Council from 1992 to 1996 and served as Mayor for part of that time.
As of 2018, Simitian is President of the Santa Clara County Board of Supervisors, representing District 5 (Los Altos, Los Altos Hills, Palo Alto, Cupertino, Mountain View, Saratoga, and Stanford, as well as portions of Sunnyvale and San Jose).  He was first elected to the Board of Supervisors in November 1996, serving from 1997 to 2000.
Simitian was elected again to the District 5 seat of the Board of Supervisors in 2012, after reaching his term limit in the State Senate.  He was re-elected in 2016 with 89 percent of the vote.[10]
As Supervisor, Simitian is credited with saving the 400 units of affordable housing at the Buena Vista Mobile Home Park,[11] and he has proposed the building of affordable teacher housing in Palo Alto for teachers across the county.[12][13] He also successfully pushed the County to fund multiple new playgrounds accessible to special needs children, following the creation of Palo Alto's Magical Bridge Playground.[14]
Simitian has advanced multiple privacy-related initiatives at the county level. Under his guidance, Santa Clara County became "one of the first in the country" to hire a privacy specialist in a designated role to oversee its data-driven programs.[15]  He also secured passage of a surveillance ordinance, the first of its kind in the United States, requiring that police forces get explicit permission for new surveillance technology.[16]
Simitian pushed for more civilian oversight for Sheriff and county jails[17] and secured approval for body-worn cameras for Sheriff's Deputies and jail guards.[18]
Simitian was elected to the California State Assembly's 21st District in November 2000, and re-elected to a second term in November 2002.
Legislation sponsored by Simitian and signed into law during this period includes:
Simitian was elected to the California State Senate in November 2004 for District 11.  He defeated former Assemblyman and San Mateo County Supervisor Ted Lempert in the Democratic primary election, also prevailing in the general election. Simitian was re-elected to a second term in 2008. His second term ended in 2012. Simitian was one of only four Democratic Senators to vote against California's ambitious High Speed Rail plan.
Azerbaijan's Foreign Ministry has put Simitian on a list of individuals banned from entering the country. The decision was made after Simitian travelled to Nagorno-Karabakh without Baku's permission.[34]
Simitian's legislation during his Senate term includes:
S.B. 107, 20% Renewable Energy Portfolio (2005)[35]
S.B. 201, Sustainable Oceans Act, Aquaculture (2005)[36][37]
S.B. 679, Funding for San Mateo County group homes (2005)[38]
S.B. 1613, Hands-free cell phone law (2006)[39][40]
S.B. 729, Water quality (2006)[41]
S.B. 1609, Elder abuse prevention in reverse mortgages (2006)[42]
S.B. 28, Prohibition on texting while driving (2007)[43]
S.B. 966, Pharmaceutical waste disposal (2007)[44]
S.B. 1298, Student Information System (2008)[45]
S.B. 640, Sexual misconduct by public employees (2008)[46]
S.B. 28, Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta emergency preparedness Act (2008)[47]
S.B. 509, Green chemistry: toxics information clearinghouse (2008)[48][49]
S.B. X71, Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Reform Act (2009)[50]
S.B. 1342, Polling places (2010)[51]
S.B. 1381, Kindergarten age/transitional kindergarten (2010)[52]
S.B. 1411, Malicious online impersonation prevention (2010)[53]
S.B. 1311, Small business loans, California Capital Access Program (2008)[54]
S.B. 24, Data breach notification requirements (2011)[55]
S.B. 1303, Red light camera reform (2012)[56]
S.B. 1359, Tax check-offs for cancer research (2012)[57]
S.B. 1538, Dense breast tissue notification (2012)[58][59]
S.B. 36, Healthcare access for at-risk children (2011)[60]
S.B. 2X, 33% Renewable Energy by 2020 (2011)[61]
S.B. 1739, Oil spill response training (2008)[62]
S.B. 1456, CEQA reform (2010)[63]
S.B. 226, CEQA streamlining (2011)[64]
S.B. 1191, Default disclosure to prospective tenants (2012)[65]
Simitian serves on the following committees on the Board of Supervisors:
Simitian served on the following Senate committees:[66]
Simitian has received the following awards (partial list):[67]
The following are some of Simitian's other activities:[68]

TITLE: Tim Draper
Timothy Cook Draper (born June 11, 1958) is an American venture capital investor, and founder of Draper Fisher Jurvetson (DFJ),[2] Draper University, Draper Venture Network, Draper Associates[3], and Draper Goren Holm. His most prominent investments include Baidu, Hotmail, Skype, Tesla, SpaceX, AngelList, SolarCity, Ring, Twitter, DocuSign, Coinbase, Robinhood, Ancestry.com, Twitch, Cruise Automation, and Focus Media. In July 2014, Draper received wide coverage[4] for his purchase at a US Marshals Service auction of seized bitcoins from the Silk Road marketplace website. Draper is a major proponent of Bitcoin and decentralization.
Draper is often regarded as one of the most successful venture capitalists in the world, and one of the most powerful and influential people in Silicon Valley.[citation needed]
Draper is the third in a familial line of venture capitalists and government officials. He is the son of Phyllis (Culbertson) and William Henry Draper III and the younger brother of actress Polly Draper. His father is the founder of Draper & Johnson Investment Company and former chairman and president of the Export-Import Bank of the United States. His grandfather, William Henry Draper Jr., founded Draper, Gaither and Anderson in 1958 and served as the first ambassador to NATO.[2]
Draper attended Phillips Academy Andover before matriculating to Stanford University, where he graduated with a BS in electrical engineering in 1980.[5] He later earned an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1984.[2]
While at Stanford, Draper interned at Hewlett-Packard as a marketing engineer. Draper made national headlines as a student when he created the popular campus board game "Stanford - The Game" alongside Heidi Roizen, who was a student at the Stanford Graduate School of Business at the time.[6]
In 1985, Draper left the investment bank Alex. Brown & Sons to start his own venture capital firm. Former colleague John H.N. Fisher became a partner in 1991, and business student Steve Jurvetson became the third partner in the firm in 1994.[7]
Draper invested in Jack Smith and Sabeer Bhatia, who presented him with their company, Hotmail. While numerous publications intimate that he "invented viral marketing" in 1996, this major acclaim was his early support for the founders, due to his idea of automatically attaching a brief advertising message to the bottom of outgoing Hotmail emails.[8] Draper and Jurvetson then coined the term "viral marketing," though the neologism itself is documented as early as a 1989 edition of PC User.[9]
Draper was the first Silicon Valley venture capitalist to invest in China through the global fund DFJ ePlanet.[10] In 2001, Draper negotiated with CEO Robin Li of Baidu to buy 28% of the company on behalf of ePlanet for USD $9 million.[11]
Draper's father, Bill Draper, was an early investor in Skype, and DFJ backed Skype in 2004.[12][13] The company owned 10% of Skype in 2005 when it was sold to eBay for US$4.1 billion.[14] Draper and Niklas Zennström appeared in the first Skype video together in 2007 at Stanford University.[15]
In 2006, Draper through DFJ was an investor in the Series C venture round of Tesla.[16] In 2007, Draper again invested in Tesla's Series D venture round through Draper Associates.[17]
On June 27, 2014, Draper paid about USD $19 million for nearly 30,000 bitcoins which had been seized by the US Marshals service and auctioned to the public.[18][19][20]
On September 23, 2014, Draper told Fox Business that he predicted that one bitcoin would reach $10,000 "in three years";[21] on January 27, 2015, Draper wagered about $400,000 (which is 2000 bitcoins with $200 price) that the bitcoin will rebound from a recent plunge.[22] The price of a bitcoin crossed $10,000 on November 29, 2017.[23]
In December 2019, he predicted that bitcoin would reach USD $250,000 in 2023.[24]
After funding Twitch, which was sold to Amazon for $1 billion,[25] Kyle Vogt, a founder of Twitch, took Draper for a ride in the Cruise Automation self-driving car. After nearly crashing, Draper funded Cruise. Cruise went on to be sold to General Motors for $1 billion as well.[26][27]
Draper was one of the first investors in the blood testing start up Theranos, whose founder Elizabeth Holmes was later charged by the SEC with committing massive fraud.[28] In 2018, after the SEC had already charged Holmes, Draper continued to defend her, saying that she had been "bullied into submission".[29]
Draper's recent investments include Robinhood (company), Coinbase, eShares, and OpenGov. Draper's recent investments are centered around companies who use artificial intelligence, Bitcoin, blockchain, smart contracts, and computational genomics to apply to industries like finance, health care, and government.[30][31][32]
Draper has spoken out for free markets and entrepreneurship globally, and against Sarbanes-Oxley regulations, stating that they limit the viability of taking companies public.[33]
In 2000, Draper spent $20 million on a failed measure to support school vouchers.[34]
In early 2014, Draper filed a petition which was accepted by California's Secretary of State Debra Bowen to begin collecting signatures to divide California into six smaller states, arguing that California is "increasingly ungovernable" as one state.[35] However, on September 12, 2014, it was announced the plan fell short of the required amount of valid signatures to land it on the 2016 ballot.[36]
In April 2018 Draper announced collection of "about 600,000" signatures for a new petition to divide California, this time into three new states.[37] In June 2018, the petition collected a sufficient number of signatures to qualify as an initiative in the 2018 general election.[38]
On July 18, 2018, the day before ballots were sent to print, the California Supreme Court blocked the measure from appearing on the November 2018 ballot.[39]
In 2013, Draper launched Draper University of Heroes, an educational program that offers a crash course in entrepreneurship. The university's residential program is based in San Mateo, California, and the curricula are designed by Draper.[40]

TITLE: Roger Moore (computer scientist)
Roger D. Moore (November 16, 1939 – March 21, 2019) was the 1973 recipient (with Larry Breed and Richard Lathwell) of the Grace Murray Hopper Award from the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). It was given: "For their work in the design and implementation of APL\360, setting new standards in simplicity, efficiency, reliability and response time for interactive systems."[1]
Moore was a cofounder of I. P. Sharp Associates and held a senior position in the company for many years.  Before this, he contributed to the SUBALGOL compiler at Stanford University and wrote the ALGOL 60 compiler for the Ferranti-Packard 6000 and the ICT 1900. Along with his work on the programming language APL, he was also instrumental in the development of IPSANET, a private packet switching data network.
Roger D. Moore was born in Redlands, California. Before graduation, he worked as an operator of the Burroughs 220 computer at Stanford. During this time he provided some support for Larry Breed’s card stunt system.[2] He also spent time studying the Burroughs 220 BALGOL compiler. This resulted in BUTTERFLY which was described by George Forsythe:
Each grader program was written as a BALGOL-language procedure. It was then compiled together with a procedure called BUTTERFLY, written by Moore. The result was a relocatable machine-language procedure, with a mechanism for equating its variables to variables of any BALGOL program, in just the form of the BALGOL compiler’s own machine-language library procedures (SIN, WRITE, READ, etc).[3]
Forsythe anticipated a problem as described by Bob Braden:BALGOL at Stanford outlived the B220 hardware. In 1962 Stanford contracted with IBM to obtain an IBM 7090 for campus computing. This created great consternation in Forsythe’s office. A significant body of faculty and students was now familiar with BALGOL, and the high compiling speed of the BAC was vital in an academic environment. To subject this community to the production-oriented system software offered by IBM, including a slow Fortran compiler and cumbersome operating system, would have moved academic computing at Stanford backward by several years.[4] To address this problem, in December 1961, Moore was hired by Forsythe to work on the SUBALGOL compiler for the IBM 7090.[5] Braden and Breed were hired soon afterward.
After completion of SUBALGOL, he was hired by Ferranti-Packard to write an ALGOL 60 compiler for the FP6000. This compiler was part of the software package which are included in the sale of the FP6000 to International Computers and Tabulators.[6]
In December 1964  most employees of Ferranti-Packard's computer group were laid off. Along with six other former FP employees he formed I. P. Sharp Associates. He was vice-president from incorporation to his retirement in 1989.
In 1966 he, Larry Breed and Richard Lathwell began work on the APL\360 interpreter.[7][8]
Lastly, APL\360 owes much of its superior time-sharing performance to Roger D. Moore, of I.P. Sharp Associates, Toronto, who was principally responsible for the supervisor. Its design has not been described to the extent it deserves.[9] This team received the Grace Murray Hopper Award from the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). It was given: "For their work in the design and implementation of APL\360, setting new standards in simplicity, efficiency, reliability and response time for interactive systems."[1]
In 1970, Moore became project leader of IPSA's speculative DOS/360 COBOL compiler project.[10][11][12] Although the compiler had satisfactory performance, the market did not accept it.
IPSA offered APL time-sharing service starting in 1969. By 1975, the inflexibility and communication error intolerance of time-division multiplexing were no longer tolerable. He became the chief architect of the IPSANET packet switching computer network. In 1976 this system was deployed in North America and London.[13]
In 1984, IPSA released Sharp APL for the IBM PC.[14] This package included a 370 emulator written by Moore.
After retiring from IPSA in early 1989, he became interested in opera and chamber music.[15] Along with attending many performances, he has supported concerts,[16][17][18][19] commissions and advanced music education.[20][21][22]
Moore has funded the composing of many works.

TITLE: Chip Conley
Chip Conley (born October 31, 1960, in Orange, California) is an American hotelier, hospitality entrepreneur, author, and speaker. Conley is the founder of Joie de Vivre Hospitality, which he began in 1987 at age 26 and held the position of CEO for nearly 24 years. In 2010, after having created and managed 50 boutique hotels mostly in California, Conley sold his company to Geolo Capital.[5] The last hotel concept he created for the company is The Epiphany in Palo Alto.[6] Conley remains a private owner in many hotel properties and no longer has an operating role in the company.
Conley spoke at the annual TED conference in 2010[7] on creating a business model driven by our need for meaning as outlined by Abraham Maslow's hierarchy of needs and as presented in his book Peak: How Great Companies Get their Mojo from Maslow.[8] Conley's other books include The Rebel Rules: Daring to Be Yourself in Business;[9] Marketing that Matters: 10 Practices to Profit Your Business and Change the World;[10] Emotional Equations: Simple Truths for Creating Happiness + Success in Business + in Life;[11] Wisdom@Work: The Making of a Modern Elder.
In 2013, Conley became Head of Global Hospitality and Strategy for Airbnb.[12] and founded Fest300.[13] At Airbnb, he was asked by the three co-founders to help evolve the company into a hospitality company with more than one million hosts in 191 countries.[14] Conley worked closely with CEO Brian Chesky as a mentor and helped to build a bridge to the travel, hotel, and real estate/development/landlord industries.[15] He also conceived and led the annual Airbnb Open.[16] In 2017, he transitioned to the role of Strategic Advisor for Hospitality and Leadership.[17]
In 2016, Fest300 was acquired by Everfest, with Conley joining the Everfest leadership team as Chief Strategy Officer on a part-time basis.[4] In 2018, he founded the Modern Elder Academy (MEA) in Baja California Sur, a wisdom school dedicated to helping people navigate midlife. MEA is a mission-driven organization that provides scholarships to 50% of students and graduates receive a certificate in Mindset Management.
Conley is the founder of San Francisco's annual Celebrity Pool Toss fundraiser, which has raised millions for inner city families in San Francisco's Tenderloin District, where his first hotel, the Phoenix, is located.[18] And he created the annual Hotel Hero Awards that celebrate line-level hospitality staff for the work they do daily.[19] He served on the Glide Memorial Board for nearly a decade[20] and is now on the Boards of the Burning Man Project[21] and the Esalen Institute.[22]
Graduated from the PACE program at Long Beach Polytechnic High School. Received his BA in 1982 and an MBA in 1984 from Stanford University.[23] Holds an honorary doctorate from Saybrook University.[24]

TITLE: Frank Cady
Frank Randolph Cady (September 8, 1915 – June 8, 2012) was an American actor best known for his role as storekeeper Sam Drucker in three American television series during the 1960s – Petticoat Junction, Green Acres, and The Beverly Hillbillies – and his earlier role as Doc Williams on The Adventures of Ozzie and Harriet.[2]
Cady was born in Susanville, California, the youngest of three children of Leon and Clara Cady.[3] In high school, he worked at a local newspaper, The Lassen County Advocate.[4] Cady's family later moved to Wilsonville, Oregon.
He studied journalism and drama at Stanford University, where he was involved with the campus humor magazine, the Stanford Chaparral. Following college graduation, Cady served an apprenticeship at the Westminster Theater in London, appearing in four plays. In England, he made an early television appearance on the BBC in late 1938.[4]
He returned to Stanford in 1939 for graduate studies and a position as a teaching assistant. While at Stanford, Cady met and later married his wife, Shirley Katherine Jones, in 1940. Born in Oakland, California, Shirley Cady, a Stanford graduate, had several vocations – professional singer, teacher, and legal secretary.[3]
Dissatisfied with academia, Frank began a series of jobs two years later, as an announcer and news broadcaster at various California radio stations. His career was put on hold in 1943 when he joined the United States Army Air Corps, serving in England, France, and Germany during World War II.[5]
After being discharged from military service in 1946, Cady appeared in a series of plays in the Los Angeles area that led to movie roles, beginning in 1947. In 1949, he had an uncredited speaking role in the classic film noir drama D.O.A.. In 1950, he had another uncredited role in Father of the Bride. He had a small part in the noir classic The Asphalt Jungle (also 1950) playing a witness who refused to identify a robbery suspect. He appeared in George Pal's  film When Worlds Collide (1951), and worked with Pal again in 1964 in 7 Faces of Dr. Lao.
Cady had a prominent role in Billy Wilder's Ace in the Hole (or The Big Carnival, also 1951) and had a small, nonspeaking role in Rear Window in 1954. He played the husband of Eileen Heckart characters in two films: The Bad Seed (1956) and Zandy's Bride (1974). He appeared on the Make Room For Daddy episode that was the pilot for The Andy Griffith Show. He was cast on some radio programs, including Gunsmoke episode #140 ("Outlaw Robin Hood") on January 8, 1955.[6]
In the 1950s, Cady played Doc Williams in Ozzie and Harriet (1953–1964). In 1961, he made a guest appearance on Perry Mason as twin brothers Joe and Hiram Widlock in "The Case of the Pathetic Patient". He was prolific in television and was the only actor to play a recurring character on three television sitcoms at the same time, which he did from 1968 to 1969, appearing on The Beverly Hillbillies, Green Acres, and Petticoat Junction simultaneously. As Sam Drucker, he appeared in 142 of 170 Green Acres episodes during its six-year run from 1965 to 1971. Also as Sam Drucker, he was one of only three co-stars of Petticoat Junction who stayed with the series for its entire seven-year run (1963–1970), along with Edgar Buchanan and Linda Henning, appearing in 152 of the show's 222 episodes. He played Sam in 10 episodes of The Beverly Hillbillies ifrom 1968 to 1970, and he continued his Sam Drucker role in the final season of Green Acres after Petticoat Junction ended in 1970.
His final acting role was in the television movie Return to Green Acres (1990). In a 1995 interview with the Portland Oregonian Cady spoke of his television career: "You get typecast. I'm remembered for those shows and not for some pretty good acting jobs I did other times. I suppose I ought to be grateful for that, because otherwise I wouldn't be remembered at all. I've got to be one of the luckiest guys in the world."[7]
In 2005, Cady attended Eddie Albert's funeral, along with Green Acres co-stars Sid Melton and Mary Grace Canfield.
Cady loved to write humorous poems, limericks, and parodies of songs. He also loved playing golf with friends, as well as traveling; he enjoyed many years of hiking in Switzerland. In 1977,  his wife and he moved to Cambria, California. In 1991, they moved again, to his former hometown, Wilsonville, Oregon.
Shirley Cady died on August 22, 2008, at the age of 91. The Cadys, who were married 68 years, had two children – daughter Catherine Turk and son Steven Cady. They had three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Frank Cady died at his home on June 8, 2012 at age 96. No specific cause was given.[8] Upon his death he was cremated and his ashes are buried at Los Osos Valley Memorial Park, Los Osos, California in the same plot as his wife.[9]

TITLE: Salar Kamangar
Salar Kamangar (Persian: سالار کمانگر‎;[2] born 1977 in Tehran)[3][1] is an Iranian-American senior executive at Google and former CEO of Google's YouTube brand.[4]
Salar Kamangar (born in Tehran, Iran) holds a bachelor's degree in Biological Sciences with honors from Stanford University and was the 9th employee to join Google.[4] He joined after graduating from Stanford in 1998.[4]
On October 29, 2010, it was announced that Salar "SK" Kamangar, who was in charge of day-to-day activities, would replace Chad Hurley as CEO of YouTube.[4][5][6]  He was replaced as CEO of YouTube on February 5, 2014. His successor at YouTube is Susan Wojcicki.[7]
Prior to that, Kamangar created the company's first business plan and was responsible for its legal and finance functions.[citation needed] From there, he became a founding member of Google's product team,[citation needed] where he worked on consumer projects including the acquisition of DejaNews and the subsequent launch of Google Groups.

TITLE: Trip Hawkins
William Murray Hawkins III (born December 28, 1953) is an American entrepreneur and founder of Electronic Arts, The 3DO Company, and Digital Chocolate.
Hawkins designed his own undergraduate major at Harvard University in Strategy and Applied Game Theory.[3]
Hawkins was the Director of Strategy and Marketing at Apple Computer in 1982 when he left to found Electronic Arts (EA), a video game publisher. Electronic Arts was successful for many years under his leadership. He has been credited with spearheading the games industry's evolution from simple one-person creations to complex team projects during this time.[4]
Though he remained chair of the board, Hawkins transitioned from EA in 1991 to form 3DO, a video game console company. He resigned from the board of EA in July, 1994.  Meanwhile, 3DO was formed in partnership with several other companies including EA. Upon its release in 1993, the 3DO was the most powerful video game console at the time. It was also expensive at launch, initially costing US$599,[5] compared to other major systems retailing for under $200. Sales were poor due to its exorbitant price and weak games that relied excessively on full motion video sequences (which were state-of-the-art for the time) at the expense of gameplay. Hopes for the system were further damaged in 1994 with the arrival of the Sony PlayStation and Sega Saturn, both of which were cheaper than the 3DO[6] but had more modern hardware and stronger first party support. While acknowledging the 3DO's failure in the marketplace, Next Generation listed Hawkins in their "75 Most Important People in the Games Industry of 1995", calling him "one of the game market's visionaries."[7]
In 1996, 3DO stopped developing the system and transitioned into a video game developer, making games for the PlayStation, PC and other consoles.[8] While remaining chairman and CEO of the company, Hawkins took on the additional role of creative director.[9] Hawkins decided to make branding a focus and 6-to-9-month production timetables for games. As a result, quality suffered as did sales. Hawkins had used cash reserves to bail out the failing company before, but declined to do so a final time. Due to poor sales of its titles, it went bankrupt in May 2003. 3DO is now out of business. The defunct company sold most of its intellectual property, including the Might and Magic franchise, to publisher Ubisoft, whereas Trip Hawkins owns the 3DO console hardware and software.
In late 2003, Hawkins launched a new video game development company called Digital Chocolate. The company focuses on developing games for handheld devices. He stepped down from the CEO position at Digital Chocolate in May, 2012.[10]
In 2012, Hawkins joined the board of directors of Israeli technology company Extreme Reality, which is working on developing motion control software that can read a person's movement in 3D, but which only requires a 2D camera.[11]
On March 20, 2013, NativeX, a mobile ad technology platform for games, announced Trip Hawkins as a senior advisor to their board of directors.[12][13] Hawkins also joined the advisory board at Skillz, a mobile eSports platform, as a strategic advisor in December 2014.[14]
His new startup, If You Can, aims to foster social and emotional development (SEL) in children, teaching compassion and anti-bullying lessons. Their first game, "IF...", uses a free-to-play model and is meant for teachers and students in an educational environment.[15]
He lives in Santa Barbara, California where he served from 2016-2019 as a professor of entrepreneurship and leadership at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
In 2005, Hawkins became the eighth person to be inducted into the Academy of Interactive Arts and Sciences Hall of Fame.[16]

TITLE: Dennis Hwang
Hwang Jeong-mok (Korean: 황정목; born c. 1978),[1] known professionally as Dennis Hwang, is an American-born South Korean graphic artist currently working for Niantic,[2] who was the original designer of some of the festive logos for Google.
Born in Knoxville, Tennessee, he moved to South Korea when he was about five years old.[3] His hometown was Gwacheon where he "had a very normal childhood".[3] He went through public schools, spending six years at Gwacheon Elementary School and two years at Munwon Middle School, before returning to Knoxville and graduating from Bearden High School.[3] His doodles during these years were frowned upon, but are now his source of income and pleasure. On a return visit to Knoxville in 2003, Hwang was awarded an Appalachian Arts Fellow Award at World's Fair Park by then-mayor Victor Ashe. Ashe proclaimed, "Mr. Hwang's work is impressioned hundreds of millions of times each week, and reaches all corners of the globe.  He is arguably Knoxville's most persistent artist."
He received a degree from Stanford in arts and computer science.[4]
During Burning Man Festival of 1998, Larry Page and Sergey Brin designed the first doodle in order to notify users of their absence. Subsequently, Dennis Hwang was assigned to create Google logos.[4] Hwang's first logo design for Google was in honor of Bastille Day,[2] July 14, 2000, at the request of Larry Page and Sergey Brin,[5] and he has been designing the specialty logos ever since. He creates about 50 Google logos each year.[6] Other logos have been designed commemorating Thanksgiving, Christmas, and other events such as Piet Mondrian's birthday. Hwang also designed the iconic Gmail logo on the night before its release.[7][unreliable source?]
His actual position was Google's international webmaster, which made him responsible for all of their international content.[8]

TITLE: Paola Gianturco
Paola Gianturco (born 1939) is an American photojournalist and former business executive. Her photojournalistic work has focused on women around the world who have overcome difficult issues.
Gianturco was born and raised in Urbana, Illinois.[1] When she was 8 years old, she received her first camera, a gift from her father.[2] She graduated from Stanford University in 1961.[1]
Before becoming a photojournalist in the mid-1990s, Gianturco spent 34 years working in marketing and corporate communications.[2] She worked at Hall & Levine, the first women-owned advertising agency, where she became a principal; and spent nine years as executive vice president of the corporate communications subsidiary of Saatchi & Saatchi.[1]
In 1995, Gianturco was living near San Francisco, working as a communications consultant.[3] The United Nations’ Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing inspired her to document craftswomen in developing countries, and she invited former co-worker Toby Tuttle to collaborate in photographing and writing a book.[4] At the time, the two were both amateur photographers and longtime folk art collectors. They spent three years researching the subject, and two more interviewing and photographing 90 craftswomen in 12 developing countries on 4 continents.[1] They spent at least a week in each of the 28 villages they visited.[5]
In Her Hands: Craftswomen Changing the World was published in 2000, with a foreword by Alice Walker. The book includes 260 color photographs. Gianturco and Tuttle wrote the book with the intention of bringing publicity to the craftswomen, and to help the craftswomen receive a fair share of the proceeds from sales of their work.[1]
With her next book, 2004’s Celebrating Women, Gianturco documented festivals and ceremonies in 15 countries across the globe that honor women.[6]
¡Viva Colores! A Salute to the Indomitable People of Guatemala (2006), with text by David Hill and photos by Gianturco, taken over a ten-year span, is a collection of vivid, colorful photos of seemingly ordinary Guatemalans who are making a difference in their communities.[7]
Her 2007 book Women Who Light the Dark spotlights women who have overcome issues such as poverty, disease and violence to improve themselves and their communities. Gianturco interviewed and photographed women in 15 countries on 5 continents.[8]
Grandmother Power: A Global Phenomenon was published in 2012. Gianturco, a grandmother herself, profiles activist grandmothers from 15 countries across 5 continents, with the women telling their stories in their own words, accompanied by Gianturco’s photos. She began researching the book in 2006 while in Kenya working on Women Who Light the Dark, where she observed a “new international activist grandmother movement.”[9]
Wonder Girls: Changing Our World, written with her granddaughter Alex Sangster, documents the work of groups of activist girls in thirteen different countries. Musimbi Kanyoro, the president and CEO of the Global Fund for Women, wrote the forward for the book. The book received a Nautilus Book Grand/Gold Award in the Social Change/Social Justice category in 2017.[10]
Gianturco is a former board member of the Association for Women's Rights in Development;[11] and a former board chair of the Washington-based Crafts Center.[11] 40 Over 40 listed her as one of 40 Women to Watch Over 40 in 2013.[12] Women’s e-News named her one of Leaders for the 21st Century in 2014.[13]
Some of the venues and locations where her work has been exhibited include the United Nations in New York, UNESCO in Paris, the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, the International Museum of Women in San Francisco, and at the Smithsonian Folklife Festival in Washington, DC.[14][15] The Grand Rapids Public Museum mounted an exhibit based on her book Grandmother Power: A Global Phenomenon, from September 6, 2013, through February 2, 2014.[16]
Grandmother Power won the 2013 International Book Award for Multicultural Nonfiction;[17] ForeWord Reviews' 2012 Book of the Year award for Women's Studies;[18] Living Now's 2013 Gold Medal for Social Activism/Charity;[19] and About.com's 2013 Readers' Choice Award for Favorite Grandparenting Book.[20]

TITLE: Sharon Olds
Sharon Olds (born November 19, 1942) is an American poet.  Olds has been the recipient of the 2013 Pulitzer Prize in Poetry,[1] the 1984 National Book Critics Circle Award, and the first San Francisco Poetry Center Award in 1980.[2][3] She teaches creative writing at New York University.[4]
Sharon Olds was born on November 19, 1942, in San Francisco, California,[5] but was brought up in Berkeley, California,[3] along with her siblings. She was raised as a "hellfire Calvinist", as she describes it.[6][7] Her father, like his before him, was an alcoholic who was often abusive to his children. In Olds' writing she often refers to the time (or possibly even times) when her father tied her to a chair.[8] Olds' mother was often either unable or too afraid to come to the aid of her children.
The strict religious environment Olds was raised in had certain rules of censorship and restriction.  Olds was not permitted to go to the movies and the family did not own a television.  As for the literature granted in the household Olds once said she won a singing contest in church choir. "[The prize] was a book of child martyrs who had been killed for their belief and died very politely."  She liked fairy tales, and also read Nancy Drew and Life magazine.[9]  As for her own religious views and her exposure to religious literary art she says she was by nature "a pagan and a pantheist" and notes: "I was in a church where there was both great literary art and bad literary art, the great art being psalms and the bad art being hymns. The four-beat was something that was just part of my consciousness from before I was born." She adds: "I think I was about 15 when I conceived of myself as an atheist, but I think it was only very recently that I can really tell that there's nobody there with a copybook making marks against your name."[10]
For schooling, Olds was sent east, to Dana Hall School, an all-girls school for grades 6 to 12 in Wellesley, Massachusetts that boasts an impressive list of alumnae.[11]  There she studied mostly English, History, and Creative Writing.  Her favorite poets included William Shakespeare, Emily Dickinson, Walt Whitman, and Edna St. Vincent Millay, but it was Allen Ginsberg's Howl and Other Poems that she carried in her purse through tenth grade.[12]
For her bachelor's degree Olds returned to California where she earned her BA at Stanford University in 1964.  Following this Olds once again moved cross country to New York, where she earned her Ph.D. in English in 1972 from Columbia University.[3]  She wrote her doctoral dissertation on "Emerson's Prosody", because she appreciated the way he defied convention.[11]
 I want to go up to them and say Stop,   
don’t do it—she’s the wrong woman,   
he’s the wrong man, you are going to do things
you cannot imagine you would ever do,   
you are going to do bad things to children,
you are going to suffer in ways you have not heard of,
you are going to want to die. I want to go
up to them there in the late May sunlight and say it,
her hungry pretty face turning to me,   
her pitiful beautiful untouched body,
his arrogant handsome face turning to me,   
his pitiful beautiful untouched body,   
but I don’t do it. I want to live.
From "I Go Back to May 1937" Strike Sparks: Selected Poems 1980–2002 (2004)[13]
On March 23, 1968, she married Dr. David Douglas Olds in New York City and, in 1969, gave birth to the first of their two children. In 1997, after 29 years of marriage, they divorced, and Olds moved to New Hampshire, though she commutes to New York three days a week.[12]  There, she lives in the same Upper West Side apartment she has lived in for the past 40 years while working as a Professor at New York University.  In New Hampshire she lives in Graylag Cabins in Pittsfield with her partner of seven years, Carl Wallman, a former cattle breeder.[14]
In 2005, First Lady Laura Bush invited Olds to the National Book Festival in Washington, D.C.  Olds responded, declining the invitation in an open letter published in the October 10, 2005 issue of The Nation.  The letter closes: 
"So many Americans who had felt pride in our country now feel anguish and shame for the current regime of blood, wounds and fire. I thought of the clean linens at your table, the shining knives and the flames of the candles, and I could not stomach it".[15]Following her PhD on Emerson's prosody, Olds let go of an attachment to what she thought she 'knew about' poetic convention.[10] Freed up, she began to write about her family, abuse, sex, focusing on the work not the audience. Olds has commented that she is more informed by the work of poets such as Galway Kinnell, Muriel Rukeyser and Gwendolyn Brooks than by confessional poets like Anne Sexton or Sylvia Plath. Plath, she comments "was a great genius, with an IQ of at least double mine" and while these women charted well the way of women in the world she says "their steps were not steps I wanted to put my feet in."[10]
When Olds first sent her poetry to a literary magazine she received a reply saying,"This is a literary magazine. If you wish to write about this sort of subject, may we suggest the Ladies' Home Journal. The true subjects of poetry are... male subjects, not your children."[16]
Olds eventually published her first collection, Satan Says, in 1980, at the age of 37. Satan Says  sets up the sexual and bodily candour that would run through much of her work. In "The Sisters of Sexual Treasure" she writes,
As soon as my sister and I got out of our
mother's house, all we wanted to
do was fuck, obliterate
her tiny sparrow body and narrow
grasshopper legs.[10]
The collection is divided into four sections: "Daughter", "Woman", "Mother", "Journeys".  These titles echo the familial influence that is prevalent in much of Olds' work.
The Dead and the Living was published in February 1984.  This collection is divided into two sections, "Poems for the Dead" and "Poems for the Living".  The first section begins with poems about global injustices.  These injustices include the Turkish Massacre of the Armenians during WWI, the 1921 Tulsa Race Riot, the reign of Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi, and even the death of Marilyn Monroe.
Olds' book The Wellspring (1996), shares with her previous work the use of raw language and startling images to convey truths about domestic and political violence and family relationships. A reviewer for The New York Times hailed her poetry for its vision: "Like Whitman, Ms. Olds sings the body in celebration of a power stronger than political oppression."[17] Alicia Ostriker noted Olds traces the "erotics of family love and pain." Ostriker continues: "In later collections, [Olds] writes of an abusive childhood, in which miserably married parents bully and punish and silence her. She writes, too, of her mother's apology "after 37 years", a moment when "The sky seemed to be splintering, like a window/ someone is bursting into or out of"[10] Olds' work is anthologized in over 100 collections, ranging from literary/poetry textbooks to special collections. Her poetry has been translated into seven languages for international publications. She has been published in Beloit Poetry Journal. She was the New York State Poet Laureate for 1998–2000.[18]
Stag's Leap was published in 2013.  The poems were written in 1997, following the divorce from her husband of 29 years. The poems focus on her husband, and even sometimes his mistress. The collection won the T. S. Eliot Prize for Poetry.[19] She is the first American woman to win this award.[19] It also won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry.[1]
Her most recent publication is Odes (2016).
Olds did not participate in the Women's Movement at first, but she says, "My first child was born in 1969. In 1968 the Women's Movement in New York City—especially among a lot of women I knew—was very alive. I had these strong ambitions to enter the bourgeoisie if I could. I wasn't a radical at all. But I do remember understanding that I had never questioned that men had all the important jobs. And that was shocking—well, I was twenty years old! I'd never thought, "Oh, where's the woman bus driver?" So there's another subject—which was what it felt like to be a woman in the world."[20]
Audio of Sharon Olds reading the poem:
"The Race". The Story. American Public Media. 31 May 2012. Retrieved 2019-04-11.
Arias https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/609431/arias-by-sharon-olds/

TITLE: Owen Garriott
Owen Kay Garriott (November 22, 1930 – April 15, 2019) was an American electrical engineer and NASA astronaut, who spent 60 days aboard the Skylab space station in 1973 during the Skylab 3 mission, and 10 days aboard Spacelab-1 on a Space Shuttle mission in 1983.
After serving in the United States Navy, Garriott was an engineering professor at Stanford University before attending the United States Air Force Pilot Training Program and later joining NASA. After his NASA career, he worked for various aerospace companies, consulted on NASA-related committees, taught as an adjunct professor, and conducted research on microbes found in extreme environments.
Owen Kay Garriott was born in Enid, Oklahoma, on November 22, 1930, to Owen and Mary Catherine Garriott (née Mellick).[1]:58–59 Owen's middle name was based on his mother's middle name.[1]:59 He was a Boy Scout (earning the rank of Star Scout),[2] and graduated from Enid High School in 1948, where he served as senior class president and was voted "Most Likely To Succeed."[3] He received a Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from the University of Oklahoma in 1953, where he was a member of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. He was also the elected president of the senior class.[4] He later earned Master of Science and Ph.D. degrees from Stanford University in electrical engineering in 1957 and 1960, respectively.[5]
Garriott served as electronics officer in the United States Navy from 1953 to 1956. From 1961 through 1965, he was an assistant professor and associate professor of electrical engineering at Stanford University. He performed research and led graduate studies in ionospheric physics after obtaining his doctorate, and authored or co-authored more than 45 scientific papers, chapters and one book, principally in areas of the physical sciences.[6]
As a prerequisite of the era's scientist-astronaut training, he completed a one-year United States Air Force pilot training program in 1966, receiving qualification as pilot in jet aircraft.[7]
In 1965, Garriott was one of the six scientist-astronauts selected by NASA.[8] His first spaceflight, the Skylab 3 mission in 1973, set a world record for duration of approximately 60 days, more than double the previous record. Extensive experiments were conducted of the Sun, of Earth resources and in various life sciences relating to human adaptation to weightlessness.[7]
His second space flight was aboard STS-9 (Spacelab-1) in 1983, a multidisciplinary and international mission of 10 days aboard Space Shuttle Columbia. Over 70 separate experiments in six different disciplines were conducted, primarily to demonstrate the suitability of Spacelab for research in all these areas. He operated the world's first amateur radio station from space, W5LFL, which expanded into an important activity on dozens of shuttle flights, Space Station Mir and the International Space Station, with scores of astronauts and cosmonauts participating.[7]
Between these missions, Garriott received a NASA fellowship in the Space Station Project Office. In this position he worked closely with the external scientific communities and advised the project manager concerning the scientific suitability of the space station design.[7]
Garriott held the distinction of being the NASA astronaut with the earliest-obtained PhD degree, having earned his PhD from Stanford University in 1960, two years before Robert A. Parker who obtained his PhD from Caltech in 1962.
On September 10, 1973, controllers in Houston were startled to hear a woman's voice beaming down from Skylab. The voice startled capsule communicator (CAPCOM) Bob Crippen by calling him by name, and then the woman explained: "The boys haven't had a home-cooked meal in so long I thought I'd bring one up." After several minutes in which she described forest fires seen from space and the beautiful sunrise, the woman said: "Oh oh. I have to cut off now. I think the boys are floating up here toward the command module and I'm not supposed to be talking to you." As the Skylab astronauts later revealed, Garriott had recorded his wife, Helen, during a private radio transmission the night before.[9][10]
After leaving NASA in June 1986, Garriott consulted for various aerospace companies and served as a member of several NASA and National Research Council Committees.[7]
From January 1988 until May 1993, he was vice president of space programs at Teledyne Brown Engineering. This division, which grew to over 1,000 people, provided payload integration for all Spacelab projects at the Marshall Space Flight Center and had a substantial role in the development of the U.S. laboratory for the International Space Station.[7]
Garriott devoted time to several charitable activities in his hometown, including the Enid Arts and Sciences Foundation of which he was a co-founder in 1992. Later, he accepted a position as adjunct professor in the Laboratory for Structural Biology at the University of Alabama in Huntsville and participated in research activities there involving new microbes he returned from extreme environments such as very alkaline lakes and deep sea hydrothermal vents. Hyperthermophiles were returned from several dives in Russian MIR submersibles to the Rainbow Vent Field at a depth of 2,300 meters near the Azores in the central Atlantic Ocean. Other research activities included three trips to Antarctica from which 20 meteorites were returned for laboratory study. Garriott formed a 501(c)(3) public philanthropic Garriott Family Foundation to finance the aforementioned adventure travel for himself, his wife and other members of his family.[7]
Garriott married Helen Mary Walker, his high school sweetheart, in 1952.[1]:61 They had four children: Randall O. (born 1955), Robert K. (born 1956), Richard A. (born 1961, a computer programmer and the creator of the Ultima computer game series),[11] and Linda S. (born 1966).[12][1]:61 After he divorced his first wife, Garriott married Evelyn L. Garriott, who had three children from a previous relationship.[1]:520
His son Richard was launched as a space tourist on board Soyuz TMA-13 on October 12, 2008, the first American and the second person worldwide to follow a parent into space.[13] Owen Garriott was in mission control at the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan for the launch and was in attendance when his son returned 12 days later.[14][15]
Garriott died on April 15, 2019, at his home in Huntsville, Alabama.[16]
Garriott was a member of the following organizations: American Astronautical Society (fellow), American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (associate fellow), Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers,[7] American Geophysical Union, American Association for the Advancement of Science, Association of Space Explorers (Board of Directors), Astronaut Scholarship Foundation (vice president and vice chairman).[7]
Garriott received the following honors: National Science Foundation Fellowship, 1960–1961; Honorary Doctorate of Science, Phillips University (Enid, Okla.), 1973; NASA Distinguished Service Medal, 1973; Fédération Aéronautique Internationale V. M. Komarov Diploma for 1973;[17] the Octave Chanute Award for 1975;[18] and the NASA Space Flight Medal, 1983.[7]
The three Skylab astronaut crews were awarded the 1973 Collier Trophy "For proving beyond question the value of man in future explorations of space and the production of data of benefit to all the people on Earth."[19][20] Gerald Carr accepted the 1975 Dr. Robert H. Goddard Memorial Trophy from President Ford, awarded to the Skylab astronauts.[21]
He was one of five Oklahoman astronauts inducted into the Oklahoma Aviation and Space Hall of Fame in 1980,[22] the United States Astronaut Hall of Fame in 1997,[23] the Oklahoma Military Hall of Fame in 2000,[24] and the Enid Public Schools Hall of Fame in 2001.[7]
Garriott was presented an Honorary Doctorate of Science from Phillips University in 1973.[25]
A street named after him in Enid, Oklahoma, serves as one of the city's main thoroughfares. It is part of U.S. Route 412.[26]
Garriott was co-author, with fellow astronaut Joseph Kerwin and writer David Hitt, of Homesteading Space, a history of the Skylab program, published in 2008.[27] He was co-author of Introduction to Ionospheric Physics with Henry Rishbeth. Garriott was also a contributor to the book NASA's Scientist-Astronauts by David Shayler and Colin Burgess. Garriott wrote the foreword to the book.[1]:xv–xvi
The text of this article is based on Garriott's biography from NASA, dated August 2002. (Archived)

TITLE: Guy Kawasaki
Guy Takeo Kawasaki[2][3] (born August 30, 1954) is an American marketing specialist, author, and Silicon Valley venture capitalist.[4] He was one of the Apple employees originally responsible for marketing their Macintosh computer line in 1984. He popularized the word evangelist in marketing the Macintosh as an "Apple evangelist" and the concepts of evangelism marketing and technology evangelism/platform evangelism in general.[5][6]
From March 2015 until December 2016, Kawasaki sat on the Wikimedia Foundation Board of Trustees, the non-profit operating entity of Wikipedia.[7]
Kawasaki has also written a number of books including The Macintosh Way (1990), The Art of the Start (2004), and Wise Guy (2019).
Guy Kawasaki was born in Honolulu, Hawaii to Duke Takeshi Kawasaki (d. 2015) and Aiko Kawasaki.[8][9] His family lived in an area outside Honolulu called Kalihi Valley. His father, Duke, once served as a fireman, real estate broker, state senator, and government official while his mother was a housewife.[10] He attended ʻIolani School and graduated in 1972.[11]
Kawasaki graduated from Stanford University in 1976 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology.[11] He then attended law school at UC Davis, but quit after about a week of classes when he realized that he hated law school.[12][13] In 1977, he enrolled in the UCLA Anderson School of Management, where he earned an MBA degree.[11] While there, Kawasaki also worked at a jewelry company, Nova Stylings. Kawasaki observed, "The jewelry business is a very, very tough business, tougher than the computer business... I learned a very valuable lesson: how to sell."[14]
In 1983, Kawasaki got a job at Apple through his Stanford roommate, Mike Boich.[11][15] He was Apple's chief evangelist for four years. In a 2006 podcast interview on the online site Venture Voice, Kawasaki said, "What got me to leave is basically I started listening to my own hype, and I wanted to start a software company and really make big bucks."[16] In 1987 he was hired to lead ACIUS, the U.S. subsidiary of France-based ACI, which published an Apple database software system called 4th Dimension.[17]
Kawasaki left ACIUS in 1989 to further his writing and speaking career. In the early 1990s he wrote columns that were featured in Forbes and MacUser magazines.[11][18][19] He also founded another company, Fog City Software, which created Emailer, an email client that sold to Claris.[20][21] A collection of software utilities called Guy's Utilities for Macintosh (GUM), which was named after Guy Kawasaki, was published by After Hours Software in the early 1990s.[22] An edition of GUM for PowerBook systems was acquired by Gordon Eubanks and was subsequently remarketed by Symantec as The Norton Essentials for PowerBook.[23][24]
He returned to Apple as an Apple Fellow in 1995.[11] In 1998, he was a co-founder of Garage Technology Ventures, a venture capital firm that has made investments in Pandora Radio, Tripwire, The Motley Fool and D.light Design.[25][26] In 2007, he founded Truemors, a free-flow rumor mill, that sold to NowPublic.[27][28][29] He is also a founder at Alltop, an online magazine rack.[15][30]
In March 2013 Kawasaki joined Google as an advisor to Motorola. His role was to create a Google+ mobile device community.[31]
In April 2014, Kawasaki became the chief evangelist of Canva.[32] It is a free graphic design website for non-designers as well as professionals and was founded in 2012.
On March 24, 2015, Kawasaki joined Wikimedia Foundation's board of trustees.[33] He stood down at the end of December 2016.[7]
On April 25, 2017, Wikitribune mentioned him as an adviser.[34]
On February 26, 2019, Penguin Group released Wise Guy, described as Kawasaki's most personal book to date. While the book is written in what could be considered a memoir, it contains a series of vignettes that include various personal experiences that Kawasaki says have enlightened and inspired him.[35]
Kawasaki and his wife Beth have four children, Nicodemus ("Nic"), Noah, Nohemi, and Nate.[36] Nohemi and Nate, a pair of biological sister and brother, were adopted by them from Guatemala.[37][38][39][better source needed]

TITLE: Peter Dalglish
Peter Dalglish CM (born May 20, 1957), is the Canadian founder of the Street Kids International charity and a convicted sex offender . Until 2015, he was the Country Representative for UN-Habitat in Afghanistan. He is currently in prison in Nepal for nine years, being convicted of sexually assaulting two young boys. He denies this charge.
Dalglish was born in London, Ontario and attended Upper Canada College in Toronto. He graduated from Stanford University and then from Dalhousie Law School in 1983. Dalglish was called to the Bar in 1985.[1]
Dalglish organized an airlift of food and medical supplies from Canada to Ethiopia in December 1984. The experience convinced him to leave his law career and return to Africa to work with poor children. Dalglish joined the World University Service of Canada (WUSC) to work in Darfur, where he organized humanitarian relief for women and children displaced by severe drought and famine.[2]
In 1986, Dalglish was reassigned to run the World Food Programme Road Transportation Operation in Khartoum. Dalglish convinced a Belgian technical training school to provide auto mechanic training to street children, funded by Bob Geldof of Band Aid.[3]
In 1986, Dalglish set up a bicycle courier service run entirely by street children in Khartoum. With several borrowed bikes, he established Street Kids International. The initial profits enabled the organization to purchase more bikes.[4]
Dalglish served for some time as executive secretary to Youth Services Bureau of Ottawa, which helps out-of-work Canadian youth.[5] In 1994, Dalglish was appointed as the first director of Youth Service Canada, the Government of Canada's civilian volunteer youth corps. In 2002 Dalglish was selected as the chief technical adviser for the UN's child labour program in Nepal.[6] In this role, he focused on three initiatives: return children from orphanages to their families; treat children affected by HIV/AIDS, and apprenticeship training.[5]
In the late 1980s, Dalglish through Street Kids International arranged to rehabilitate and equip children's schools in southern Sudan as part of Operation Lifeline and hired Emma McCune to run the project.[7] Between 2006 and 2010, Dalglish served as the executive director of the South Asia Children's Fund, which promotes education for disadvantaged children in the region.[8]
Dalglish served as Senior Advisor and Deputy Chief of Party for UN-Habitat in Kabul, Afghanistan October 2010–December 2014. In December 2014, he became Chief of Party until the end of his mission in July 2015.[8] Following his Afghanistan mission, Dalglish joined the UN Mission for Ebola Emergency Response.[9]
In December 2016, Dalglish was named a Member of the Order of Canada.[10]
On April 8, 2018, Dalglish was arrested by Nepal Police from Kavre District on allegations of child rape.[11][12] After weeks of investigation, Nepal's Central Investigation Bureau (CIB) confirmed that Dalglish had been charged with raping two boys aged 12 and 14. Dalglish has denied the charges.[13] On June 10, 2019, he was found guilty.[14] On July 8, 2019 he was sentenced to prison, though news reports vary on the length of his term.[15][16][17][18]

TITLE: Bradford Perkins (architect)
City College of New York, Bachelor of Architecture;
Lawrence Bradford Perkins, FAIA, MRAIC, AICP, often credited as Bradford or Brad Perkins, is a founding partner of Perkins Eastman, an international architecture, interior design, urban design, planning, landscape architecture and project management firm, based in New York. Prior to forming Perkins Eastman, Perkins was the Managing Partner of the New York City and Washington, D.C. offices of Perkins and Will (aka Perkins + Will) and the New York City, Toronto, Houston, and Caracas offices of Llewelyn Davies International. He is the son of Lawrence Perkins, FAIA, co-founder of Perkins + Will, and the grandson of Dwight H. Perkins, FAIA, founder of Perkins Fellows & Hamilton.
Brad Perkins was born on January 13, 1943, in Chicago, Illinois, the son of Lawrence B. Perkins, Sr., FAIA (1907-1997)[1] and Margery Isabella Blair Perkins (1907-1981), and was raised in the nearby suburb of Evanston, IL. Perkins attended Cornell University where he studied architecture, ancient history, and eventually graduated magna cum laude with a degree in Latin American History in 1967. Afterward Perkins enrolled in Stanford University where he received his MBA, in 1969.[2]
While studying at Stanford and in the ensuing years following graduation, Perkins worked as a management consultant for clients in the architecture and construction industries, including the American Institute of Architects (AIA). He also served as the President of Omnidata Services, a computer software and service bureau based in New York City, from 1972-1973. In 1973 Perkins joined the London-based architecture and planning firm Llewelyn Davies as the firm's Managing Partner of the New York, Toronto, Houston and Caracas offices, a post he held until 1977. From 1976-77 he also served as the Managing Partner of the joint venture firm Llewelyn-Davies Davis Brody. During his time at Llewelyn Davies, Perkins worked on various projects including the master plan for the American University of Beirut; master plans for town-scale projects in Ontario, Trinidad, Iran, Egypt, and several U.S. states; the new headquarters for the ARCO Chemical Company (formerly part of the Atlantic Richfield Company);[3] an expansion of Corning Glass Work's headquarters; and New York City's bid to host the 1984 Summer Olympics.
During this time Perkins also served as a faculty member of City College of New York (CCNY) and was a regular contributor for Architectural Record.Further, during this time Perkins completed his coursework that he began at Cornell towards earning his B.Arch at CCNY and received his architectural license.
In 1977 Perkins joined Perkins + Will as a Senior Vice President and Managing Partner of the firm's offices in the Eastern U.S. (White Plains, New York, and Washington, DC). He directed a wide variety of projects, including a multi-year study for HUD to determine the modernization needs and priorities of the national public housing stock, in addition to many architectural, planning, and research assignments both in the U.S. and overseas,[4]
In 1981 Perkins left Perkins + Will to establish his own practice, Attia & Perkins, with Eli Attia. The firm carried out a variety of projects including the new NYC headquarters for Republic National Bank on Fifth Ave.[5] (today the New York HQ of HSBC), Canterbury Green in Stamford, CT, and several other large developments. At the end of 1983, Perkins bought out Attia's interest in the firm and reorganized the practice as Bradford Perkins and Associates. The firm's name changed again, in 1985, to Perkins Geddis Eastman, when Barbara Geddis and Mary-Jean Eastman became partners. One of the more notable projects at this time was a Victorian-style "mutual housing" complex, comprising 70 one- to three-bedroom residential units, in Stamford, CT.[6] By 1988 the firm had approximately 50 employees and was becoming well known for being "liberal in its use of flexible work flexible work schedules and parental leaves."[7] In 1991, Geddis stepped down at which point the firm became Perkins Eastman.
Perkins Eastman began a period of rapid growth starting in 1994, beginning with the opening of its first regional office, in Pittsburgh, PA, and eventually growing to about 700 employees by 2007.[8] During this period, Perkins remained Chairman and CEO yet still oversaw a number of projects. Among those where Perkins served as Principal-in-charge include the Manhattan campus of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, the TKTS Booth in Times Square, the comprehensive master plan for Hanoi, Vietnam, the national headquarters and testing center for Consumers Union, and dozens of senior living and multi-family residential projects.[9]
By 2015, Perkins Eastman had become the largest architecture practice in the New York City area (ranked by number of architects)[10] and the 16th largest in the world (ranked by previous year's revenues).[11]
Perkins regularly lectures at institutions like Harvard University, Columbia University, Princeton University, University of Southern California, Texas A&M, and Cornell University. He has served as a faculty member of the College of Architecture at the City College of New York and currently works with the architectural doctoral program at the University of Hawaii. Additionally, Perkins currently serves on the faculty of Cornell's College of Architecture, Art and Planning. He frequently speaks at associations like the American Association of Homes and Services for the Aging (now LeadingAge), National Association of Housing and Redevelopment Officials, Health Care Symposium, American Hospital Association, Hospitality Design Conference, International Conference on Intelligent Office Building Design, and various chapters of the American Institute of Architects (AIA).
Perkins has authored more than 80 articles on various architectural and planning topics, as well as several books. In addition to An Introduction to International Practice, his books include Building Type Basics for Senior Living, First and Second Edition,[12] Architect's Essentials of Starting, Assessing, and Transitioning a Design Firm, First and Second Edition,[13] and Building Type Basics for Elementary and Secondary Schools, First and Second Edition [14]—all published by John Wiley & Sons. He has also contributed one or more chapters to: The Architect’s Guide to Design-Build Services,[15] Architect’s Data, The Architect's Handbook of Professional Practice,[16] Methods of Compensation for Architectural Services, Planning and Design for New Communities in Arid Regions, Healthcare Design: An Introduction, The American Bar Association’s Planning and Financing School Improvement and Construction Projects, Hospitable Design for Healthcare and Senior Communities, among others.
Perkins is a Fellow of the American Institute of Architects (FAIA), a former Director of the New York Chapter of the AIA, and has served as President of the New York State Association of Consulting Planners. He is also a member of the Ontario Association of Architects, the American Planning Association, the Royal Architectural Institute of Canada, and the American Institute of Certified Planners. Perkins received the Lifetime Achievement Award from the New York Society of Architects, and he was recognized with the Platinum Circle Award from the Hospitality Design Association.[17]
Among his many civic responsibilities, Perkins served as Chairman of the Board of Helen Keller International (HKI), a leading not-for-profit that focuses on blindness prevention and nutrition in underdeveloped areas around the world.

TITLE: Delmer Brown
Delmer Myers Brown (November 20, 1909 – November 9, 2011) was an American academic, historian, author, translator and Japanologist.  He was a professor of Japanese history at the University of California at Berkeley.
Brown was born on November 20, 1909 in Harrisonville, Missouri and grew up in Kansas City, Missouri. In 1925, he moved with his family to Santa Ana, California. He attended Santa Ana Junior College and then Stanford University, where he graduated with a degree in history in 1932.
Instead of going to law school, as originally planned, Brown took a position teaching English at a prestigious Japanese Imperial "Higher School" in Kanazawa, Ishikawa, Japan. It was there that he met and married Mary Nelson Logan in 1934.[1]
During World War II, Brown served as an intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy.[1]
Brown earned his Ph.D. in Japanese history from Stanford in 1946.[2]
In 1987, Mary died after 53 years of marriage. Brown was widowed twice more; by Margaret Young Brown in 2003 and Louise K. Weamer in 2010. He is survived by his companion Pauline Howland, two sisters, a son and three step-children, two granddaughters, and six great-grandchildren.[1]
Brown died on November 9, 2011 following a stroke.[1]
From 1946 to 1977, Brown was a member of the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley. He was chairman of the history department from 1957 to 1961 and 1971 to 1975.[2]
Brown was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship in Japan from 1959 to 1960.[2]
In 1998, Brown started the process of establishing the Japanese Historical Text Initiative (JHTI), which is a searchable online database of Japanese historical documents and English translations. It is part of the Center for Japanese Studies at the University of California, Berkeley.[3]  The development of JHTI involved negotiations with the University of Tokyo Press and Japan's National Institute of Japanese Literature.[4]
In an overview of writings by and about Brown, OCLC/WorldCat lists roughly 40+ works in 80+ publications in 4 languages and 1,500+ library holdings.[5]

TITLE: Matthew Pierce
Matthew Pierce (born December 3, 1977) is an entrepreneur, university lecturer, and game designer. He is a former NCAA Champion and was a member of the United States Men's National Swim Team.
Matthew Pierce attended Stanford University, where he was a member of the men’s swimming and diving team. The team won the NCAA Championship in 1998.[2] Pierce was an All-American, an NCAA Champion in the 200-yard butterfly [3] and a Gold Medalist at the World University Games for USA Swimming.
After graduating from Stanford, Pierce co-founded Rosum Corporation which was later acquired by TruePosition.[4] He then moved to Los Angeles, received his MBA at UCLA Anderson and became VP of Strategy at Originate.
Matthew now serves as co-founder and CEO of O Labs,[5][6] a joint venture between Originate, Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, and ICM Partners. O Labs incubates and operates early-stage portfolio companies that attempt to address the needs of large enterprises.[7][8] Pierce is a regular contributor to Southern California's Silicon Beach and the Los Angeles startup community.[9]
Pierce is a lecturer at the UCLA Anderson School of Management and a Visiting Scholar in UCLA’s Economics Department where he teaches Entrepreneurship.
Pierce is also a game designer, serving as founder and Chief Creative Officer of Robot Dinosaur Games.  He created the game Scenarium[10] [11] and co-founded Versus, a real-money video game tournament platform backed by O Labs.

TITLE: Scott Turow
Scott Frederick Turow[1] (born April 12, 1949) is an American author and lawyer. Turow has written 11 fiction and three nonfiction books, which have been translated into more than 40 languages and sold more than 30 million copies.[2] Films have been based on several of his books.
Turow was born in Chicago, to a family of Russian Jewish descent.[3] He attended New Trier High School, and graduated from Amherst College in 1970, as a brother of the Alpha Delta Phi Literary Society.[4] He received an Edith Mirrielees Fellowship to Stanford University’s Creative Writing Center, where he attended from 1970 to 1972.
Turow later became a Jones Lecturer at Stanford, serving until 1975, when he entered Harvard Law School. In 1977, Turow wrote One L, a book about his first year at law school. After earning his Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree cum laude in 1978, Turow became an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Chicago, serving in that position until 1986. There he prosecuted several high-profile corruption cases, including the tax fraud case of state Attorney General William Scott. Turow also was lead counsel in Operation Greylord, the federal prosecution of Illinois judicial corruption cases.
After leaving the U.S. Attorney's Office, Turow became a novelist and wrote the legal thrillers Presumed Innocent (1987), The Burden of Proof (1990), Pleading Guilty (1993), and Personal Injuries, which Time magazine named as the Best Fiction Novel of 1999. All four became bestsellers, and Turow won multiple literary awards, most notably the Silver Dagger Award of the British Crime Writers' Association.
In 1990, Turow was featured on the June 11 cover of Time, which described him as "Bard of the Litigious Age".[5] In 1995, Canadian author Derek Lundy published a biography of Turow, entitled Scott Turow: Meeting the Enemy (ECW Press, 1995). In the 1990s a British publisher bracketed Turow’s work with that of Margaret Atwood and John Irving, republished in the series Bloomsbury Modern Library.
Turow was elected the president of the Authors Guild in 2010,[6][6] and was previously president from 1997 to 1998.[citation needed] As the Authors Guild president he has been criticized for his copyright maximalist and anti-ebook stance.[7] Turow has often responded that he is not against E-books and does the majority of his own reading electronically. His goal, he said often, is to protect writing as a livelihood.[8]
From 1997 to 1998 Turow was a member of the U.S. Senate Nominations Commission for the Northern District of Illinois, which recommends federal judicial appointments. In 2011, Turow met with Harvard Law School professor Lawrence Lessig to discuss political reform including a possible Second Constitution of the United States; according to one source, Turow saw risks with having such a convention, but believed that it may be the "only alternative" given how campaign money has undermined the one-man-one-vote principle of democracy.[9]
Turow is a partner of the international law firm Dentons having been a partner of one of its constituents, the Chicago law firm of Sonnenschein Nath & Rosenthal. Turow works pro bono in most of his cases, including a 1995 case where he won the release of Alejandro Hernandez, who had spent 11 years on death row for a murder he did not commit. He was also appointed to the commission considering the reform of the Illinois death penalty by former Governor George Ryan. He was the first Chair of Illinois' Executive Ethics Commission. He served as one of the 14 members of the Commission appointed in March, 2000, by Illinois Governor George Ryan to consider reform of the capital punishment system.[2] Turow also served as a member of the Illinois State Police Merit Board 2000–2002.
His non-fiction work Ultimate Punishment also received the Robert F. Kennedy Center for Justice and Human Rights 2003 Book award given annually to a novelist who "most faithfully and forcefully reflects Robert Kennedy's purposes – his concern for the poor and the powerless, his struggle for honest and even-handed justice, his conviction that a decent society must assure all young people a fair chance, and his faith that a free democracy can act to remedy disparities of power and opportunity."[11]
Scott Turow was inducted as a Laureate of The Lincoln Academy of Illinois and awarded the Order of Lincoln (the State’s highest honor) by the Governor of Illinois in 2000 in the area of Communications.[12]

TITLE: Neil Rimer
Neil Rimer is founding partner at Index Ventures, a venture capital firm.[1][2][3]
Rimer was born in Montreal, Quebec, and reared and educated (International School of Geneva) in Geneva, Switzerland. He received a bachelor’s degree in History and Economics from Stanford University, and was a General Course student at the London School of Economics. He then took his first job out of school with Montgomery Securities, an investment bank in San Francisco. He then completed a Master of Business Administration degree from Harvard Business School, and upon graduating, chose to return to Europe.[4] He was later quoted by Fortune as reflecting on this move, “I was excited about the idea of participating in the birth of the VC industry in Europe”.[5]
Soon after his return to Geneva, in 1991, Rimer helped his father Gerald exit the bond trading business he had founded, and spent a few years connecting institutional investors with European technology startups, an effort that over time evolved into the official launch of Index Ventures.[5] In 1996 Rimer co-founded Index Ventures in Geneva with his brother, David, and Giuseppe Zocco,[6] helping raise Index’ first pilot fund of $17 million, followed by a $180 million fund in 1998.[5] Companies funded during this time include SCM Microsystems (now Identive)[5] and Virata, a chipmaker, which later entered into a $1.3 Billion merger with GlobeSpan.[7]
Notable investments Rimer has been involved with at Index Ventures in the years since include Betfair (LSE: BET) and Skype (acquired by eBay for $2.6 billion,ref name="Guardian">"MediaGuardian 100 2012". The Guardian. September 16, 2012..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg/12px-Wikisource-logo.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}</ref>[8] later acquired by Microsoft for $8.5 billion).[9]
Rimer has also invested in and served on the boards of directors of Last.fm (acquired by CBS for $280 million),[10] Ofoto (acquired by Kodak),[11] Trolltech (acquired by Nokia for $153 million),[12] Numerical Technologies (acquired by Synopsis for $250 million);[13] Genmab (Nasdaq Copenhagen: GEN);[6] and StepStone.[6] Rimer currently sits on the board of directors of a number of companies including Call9, Funding Circle, HouseTrip, MOO Print, PhotoBox, StackExchange,[6] Supercell,[14] Kaggle,[15] Metromile,[16] and The Climate Corporation (acquired by Monsanto for approximately $1.1 billion).[17]
Rimer headed the team at Index Ventures that led a $130 million funding round in Supercell, the subject of a May 6, 2013 Forbes article, “Is This the Fastest-Growing Game Company Ever?”[14] In October 2013 Softbank and GungHo Online Entertainment acquired 51% of Supercell for $1.53 billion.[18]
Rimer was named the number one venture capitalist in Europe in Forbes' inaugural Midas List Europe 2017.[19] He was also featured on the Forbes Global Midas list in 2018[20] and the 2018 New York Times list of the top venture capitalists worldwide.[21]
Rimer is a member of the board of directors of Human Rights Watch (HRW)[22] and is a founder of the Geneva Committee of HRW. He has also served on the European Leadership Council of Harvard Business School and on the board of U.C. Sampdoria, a football club competing in the Italian Serie A professional football league competition.[3]

TITLE: Phil Knight
Philip Hampson Knight (born February 24, 1938), is an American business magnate and philanthropist. A native of Oregon, he is the co-founder and current chairman emeritus of Nike, Inc., and previously served as chairman and CEO of the company.[2] As of October 2019, Knight was ranked by Forbes as the 21st richest person in the world, with an estimated net worth of US$37.6 billion.[3] He is also the owner of the stop motion film production company Laika.
Knight is a graduate of the University of Oregon and Stanford Graduate School of Business. He ran track under coach Bill Bowerman at the University of Oregon, with whom he would co-found Nike.
A noted philanthropist, Knight has donated hundreds of millions of dollars to each of his alma maters, as well as Oregon Health & Science University. In total, he has donated over $2 billion to the three institutions.[4]
Phil Knight was born in Portland, Oregon to Bill Knight, a lawyer turned newspaper publisher, and his wife, Lota (Hatfield) Knight.[5][6] Knight grew up in the Portland neighborhood of Eastmoreland, and attended Cleveland High School. According to one source, "When his father refused to give him a summer job at his newspaper [the now defunct Oregon Journal], believing that his son should find work on his own," Knight "went to the rival Oregonian, where he worked the night shift tabulating sports scores and every morning ran home the full seven miles."[7]
Knight continued his education at the University of Oregon (UO), in Eugene, where he is a graduate brother of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, was a sports reporter for the Oregon Daily Emerald[8] and earned a journalism degree in 1959.[9]
As a middle-distance runner at UO, his personal best was 1 mile (1.6 km) in 4 minutes, 10 seconds,[10] and he won varsity letters for his track performances in 1957, 1958 and 1959. In 1977, together with Bowerman and Geoff Hollister, Knight founded an American running team called Athletics West.[11]
Before the Blue Ribbon Sports business that would later become Nike flourished, Knight was a Certified Public Accountant (CPA), firstly with Coopers & Lybrand, and then Price Waterhouse. Knight then became an accounting professor at Portland State University (PSU).[12]
Immediately after graduating from the University of Oregon, Knight enlisted in the army and served one year on active duty and seven years in the Army Reserve.[5] He next enrolled at Stanford Graduate School of Business,[5] where, for his small business class, Knight produced a paper, "Can Japanese Sports Shoes Do to German Sports Shoes What Japanese Cameras Did to German Cameras?," that essentially premised his eventual foray into selling running shoes. His ambition was to import high-quality and low-cost running shoes from Japan into the American market. He graduated with a master's degree in business administration from Stanford in 1962.[5]
Knight set out on a trip around the world after graduation, during which he made a stop in Kobe, Japan in November 1962. It was there that he discovered Tiger brand running shoes, manufactured in Kobe by the Onitsuka Co. Impressed by the quality and low cost of the shoes, Knight called Mr. Onitsuka, who agreed to meet with him. By the end of the meeting, Knight had secured Tiger distribution rights for the western United States.[13]
The first Tiger samples would take more than a year to be shipped to Knight; during that time he found a job as an accountant in Portland. When Knight finally received the shoe samples, he mailed two pairs to Bowerman at the University of Oregon, hoping to gain both a sale and an influential endorsement. To Knight's surprise, Bowerman not only ordered the Tiger shoes, but also offered to become a partner with Knight and provide product design ideas. The two men agreed to a partnership by handshake on January 25, 1964, the birth date of Blue Ribbon Sports (BRS), the company that would later become Nike.[14]
Knight's first sales were made out of a now storied green Plymouth Valiant automobile at track meets across the Pacific Northwest. By 1969, these early sales allowed Knight to leave his accountant job and work full-time for Blue Ribbon Sports.[13]
Jeff Johnson, Nike's first employee, suggested calling the firm "Nike," named after the Greek winged goddess of victory,[15] and Blue Ribbon Sport was subsequently renamed Nike in 1971.[16]
Nike's "swoosh" logo, now considered one of the most powerful logos in the world, was commissioned for US$35 from graphic design student Carolyn Davidson in 1971.[17] According to Nike's website, Knight said at the time: "I don't love it, but it will grow on me." In September 1983, Davidson was given an undisclosed amount of Nike stock for her contribution to the company's brand. On the Oprah television program in April 2011, Knight claimed he gave Davidson "A few hundred shares" when the company went public.[18]
At Nike, Knight developed personal relationships with some of the world's most recognizable athletes, including Michael Jordan and Tiger Woods.[19][20]
Following mainstream success in the late 1990s, Will Vinton Studios animation company sought external investors due to rapid growth, including Knight, who assumed a 15 percent stake in the company, in 1998, and facilitated the employment of his son Travis– who had graduated from PSU following an unsuccessful attempt at a rap music career –as an animator.[21]
Citing mismanagement, Knight eventually purchased Will Vinton Studios and assumed control of the company's board with the cooperation of Nike executives. In late 2003, Knight appointed his son to the board and, after Vinton had stepped down— prior to leaving the company with a severance package —Knight rebranded the company Laika. He then invested US$180 million into Laika, and the studio released its first feature film, Coraline, in stop motion, in 2009. Coraline was a financial success and Travis Knight was then promoted into the roles of Laika CEO and president.[21][22]
In May 2004, two years after Knight bought Vinton, his son Matthew, aged 34 years, traveled to El Salvador to film a fund-raising video for Christian Children of the World, a Portland nonprofit organization. However, while scuba diving with his colleagues Vincenzo Iannuzzelli and Robert McDonell in Lake Ilopango, near San Salvador, he died immediately from a heart attack 150 feet (46 m) underwater due to an undetected congenital heart defect. Knight and Travis traveled to El Salvador to return Matthew Knight's body to the U.S.[22] Laika Studio's 2005 short film Moongirl was dedicated to Matthew's memory.[23]
Knight resigned as the CEO of Nike on November 18, 2004, several months after his son Matthew's funeral,[22] but retained the position of chairman of the board.[24][25] Knight's replacement was William Perez, former CEO of S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., who was eventually replaced by Mark Parker in 2006.[26]
In 2011, the Matthew Knight Arena at the University of Oregon was named in his honor.[27]
During the 2009-2010 period, Knight was the largest single contributor to the campaign to defeat Oregon Ballot Measures 66 and 67, which, once passed, increased income tax on some corporations and high-income individuals.[28]
According to a February 10, 2012 filing by attorney John F. Coburn III, on behalf of Knight, Knight owned 67,097,005 shares of Class A Common Stock and 7,740 shares of Class B Common Stock in the Nike corporation.[29]
In June 2015, Knight and Nike announced that he would step down as the company's chairman, with president and CEO Mark Parker to succeed him.[30][31]  Knight's retirement from the Nike board took effect at the end of June 2016. In September 2017, Knight decided to come out of retirement to put black back in the UNC jerseys for the Phil Knight Classic in Portland, Oregon.[32][33]
Knight's memoir, Shoe Dog, was released on April 26, 2016 by Simon & Schuster, was rated fifth on The New York Times Best Seller list for business books in July 2018,[34] and details the building of the Nike brand, from importing Japanese shoes to being part of a federal investigation.[35][36]
As of 2016, according to Portland Business Journal, "Knight is the most generous philanthropist in Oregon history. His lifetime gifts now approach $2 billion."[37]
In 2006, Knight donated US$105 million to the Stanford Graduate School of Business, which, at the time, was the largest ever individual donation to a U.S. business school. The campus was named "The Knight Management Center," in honor of Knight's philanthropic service to the school.[38]
In 2016, it was announced that Knight contributed $400 million to start the Knight-Hennessy Scholars graduate-level education program inspired by the Rhodes Scholarship.[39] Graduates are charged to tackle global challenges, such as climate change and poverty. The first class of 51 scholars from 21 countries was scheduled to arrive at Stanford in the fall of 2018.[40][41][42]
Knight has donated hundreds of millions of dollars to the University of Oregon. Major gifts include funds supporting the renovation of the Knight Library and construction of the Knight Law Center. Knight also established endowed chairs across the campus.[43] In the fall of 2016, it was announced that Knight will donate $500 million to UO for a new three-building laboratory and research science complex.[44] This donation was part of a series of large higher-education gifts.[45]
In August 2007, Knight announced that he and his wife would be donating US$100 million to found the UO Athletics Legacy Fund to help support all athletic programs at the university. In response, athletic director Pat Kilkenny said: "This extraordinary gift will set Oregon athletics on a course toward certain self sufficiency and create the flexibility and financial capacity for the university to move forward with the new athletic arena." At the time, the donation was the largest philanthropic gift in the history of the university.[46]
The 2010 construction of the UO basketball team's Matthew Knight Arena was the result of a partnership between Knight and former Oregon athletic director Pat Kilkenny. Although Knight didn't pay for the project directly, he established a $100 million "Athletic Legacy Fund." The fund supports the athletic department.[47] Named after Knight's deceased son, the venue replaced the McArthur Court building and cost over US$200 million to build. The facility was built using bonds backed by the State of Oregon.[47]
Knight was responsible for financing the UO's US$68 million 145,000 square-foot gridiron football facility that was officially opened in late July 2013. Knight's personal locker in the team's locker room displays the title "Uncle Phil", and other features include a gym with Brazilian hardwood floors, Apple iPhone chargers in each of the player's lockers, various auditoriums and meeting rooms, a games room for the players that includes flat-screen televisions and foosball machines, and a cafeteria.[48][49][50]
In November 2015, it was announced that Knight and his wife would be donating $19.2 million towards a new sports complex project at the University of Oregon. The plans for the 29,000 square foot complex was announced in September. Construction started in January 2016 and ended in September 2016.[51] The sports complex was named the Marcus Mariota Sports Performance Center and includes motion capture systems, neurocognitive assessment tools, 40-yard dash track, and steam machines made by Nike to help athletes break into their footwear more quickly.[52]
In October 2016, Knight and his wife invested $500 million to build a new campus dedicated to science, called the Phil and Penny Knight Campus for Accelerating Scientific Impact. Three new buildings will be constructed and will provide 750 family-wage jobs once it is completed and fully operational.[53][54]
Knight's contributions to the athletic department at UO have also led to controversy.[55] In April 2000, student leaders began organizing an anti-sweatshop and fair labor practices campaign, and called for Dave Frohnmayer, president of the school, to support the Workers Rights Consortium (WRC). On April 4, 2000, students began a sit-in at Johnson Hall, the UO's administrative center. In early April, an open meeting of students further demanded that the organization Fair Labor Association (FLA) would receive no consideration from the university, as it was perceived as a group founded, funded and backed by Nike and other corporations, and had also been criticized by worker rights advocates as an exercise in dishonest public relations.[56][57]
University President Dave Frohnmayer subsequently signed a one-year contract with the WRC; Knight then withdrew a US$30 million commitment toward the Autzen Stadium expansion project and offered no further donations to the university.[58][59] In a public statement, Knight criticized the WRC for having unrealistic provisions and called it misguided, while praising the FLA for being "balanced" in its approach.[60] In the face of ongoing conflict with students, Frohnmayer sided with Knight's assertion that the WRC was providing unbalanced representation[61][62] and, in October 2000, Eugene Weekly reported Frohnmayer stating that:
On February 16, 2001, the Oregon University System enacted a mandate that all institutions within the system choose business partners from a politically neutral standpoint, barring all universities in Oregon from joining either the WRC or the FLA.[63] Following the dissolved relationship between the university and the WRC, Knight reinstated the donation and increased the amount to over US$50 million.[64]
Also controversial was Knight's success in lobbying for former insurance executive Pat Kilkenny to be named as athletic director at the university.[65] Kilkenny had neither a college degree nor any prior experience in athletics administration. He attended but did not graduate from UO, as he left the school with several credit hours still owing. Prior to his appointment at UO, Kilkenny had been the chairman and chief executive officer of the San Diego-based Arrowhead General Insurance Agency, and grew the business into a nationwide organization, with written premiums of nearly US$1 billion when he sold the company in 2006.[66]
In October 2008, Knight and his wife pledged US$100 million to the OHSU Cancer Institute, the largest gift in the history of Oregon Health & Science University. In recognition, the university renamed the organization the "OHSU Knight Cancer Institute."[67]
In October 2010, Knight donated several million dollars to the Catlin Gabel School to establish a scholarship for incoming freshmen students.[68]
On May 18, 2012, Knight contributed US$65,000 to a higher education Political Action Committee (PAC) formed by Columbia Sportswear CEO Tim Boyle.[69][70] According to Boyle, the PAC will help facilitate an increase in the autonomy of schools in the Oregon University System.[71]
On September 27, 2013, Knight announced to the audience at the OHSU Knight Cancer Institute's biennial gala, when he announced his intention to donate US$500 million for research if OHSU could match it over the subsequent two years.[72]  On June 25, 2015, OHSU met that $500 million goal, and Knight announced his upcoming $500 million donation, to bring the total to $1 billion raised.[73]
Knight and wife Penny also donated to the Marylhurst Knights Opportunity Scholarship Program at Marylhurst University, a private Roman Catholic university in Marylhurst, Oregon; as a result, the university named a lawn on their campus "Knight's Green" in the family's honor.[74]
In December 2016, Knight disclosed that he had gifted $112 million in Nike stock to charity.[75]
In 2000, Knight was inducted into the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame for his Special Contribution to Sports in Oregon.[76] At the time of his induction, he had contributed approximately US$230 million to UO, the majority of which was for athletics.[77]
On February 24, 2012, Knight was announced as a 2012 inductee of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame, as a contributor. The Hall recognized him as the driving force behind Nike's huge financial support of U.S. basketball and its players. Knight was formally inducted on September 7, 2012.[78]
For his "contributions to business, corporate and philanthropic leadership", Knight was elected to the 2015 American Academy of Arts and Sciences membership class.[79][80]
Knight met his wife, Penelope "Penny" Parks, while he was working at Portland State University and the pair were married on September 13, 1968.[81] They own a home in La Quinta, California.[82]
Knight donated almost $3.5 million to Republican Knute Buehler's unsuccessful 2018 Oregon gubernatorial campaign.[83]
Knight's son, Matthew, died in a scuba diving accident in El Salvador in 2004.[84]
Another son of Knight’s, Travis Knight, runs the Laika animation studio. Phil Knight serves as Chairman.[85]

TITLE: Paul Winfield
Paul Edward Winfield (May 22, 1939 – March 7, 2004) was an American television, film and stage actor. He was known for his portrayal of a Louisiana sharecropper who struggles to support his family during the Great Depression in the landmark film Sounder (1972), which earned him an Academy Award nomination. He portrayed Martin Luther King Jr. in the 1978 television miniseries King, for which he was nominated for an Emmy Award. Winfield was also known for his roles in Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, The Terminator, L.A. Law, and 24 episodes of the sitcom 227. He received five Emmy nominations overall, winning for his 1994 guest role in Picket Fences.
Winfield was the son of Lois Beatrice Edwards, a single mother who was a union organizer in the garment industry. Although published obituaries stated he was born in Los Angeles on May 22, 1941,[1][2] some primary sources indicate he was born May 22, 1939 in Dallas, Texas.[a]  His stepfather from the age of eight was Clarence Winfield, a city trash collector and construction worker.[4][5] He graduated from Manual Arts High School in Los Angeles. From there, he attended the University of Portland, 1957–59; Stanford University, 1959; Los Angeles City College, 1959–63; University of California, Los Angeles, 1962–64; University of Hawaii, 1965 and the University of California, Santa Barbara, 1970-71.[6]
A lifetime member of The Actors Studio,[7] Winfield carved out a diverse career in film, television, theater and voiceovers by taking groundbreaking roles at a time when black actors were rarely cast. He first appeared in the 1965 Perry Mason episode, "The Case of the Runaway Racer," as Mitch, a race car mechanic. His first major feature film role was in the 1969 film The Lost Man starring Sidney Poitier. Winfield first became well known to television audiences when he appeared for several years opposite Diahann Carroll on the groundbreaking television series Julia. Filmed during a high point of racial tensions in the United States, the show was unique in featuring a black female as the central character. He also starred as Martin Luther King Jr. in the 1978 miniseries King.
In 1973, Winfield was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor for the 1972 film Sounder,[8] and his co-star in that film, Cicely Tyson, was nominated for Best Actress. Prior to their nominations and Diana Ross's for Lady Sings the Blues the same year, only three other black Americans – Dorothy Dandridge, Sidney Poitier and James Earl Jones – had ever been nominated for a leading role. He also appeared, in a different role, in the 2003 Disney-produced television remake of Sounder, which was directed by Kevin Hooks, his co-star from the original. Winfield played the part of "Jim the Slave" in Huckleberry Finn (1974) which was a musical based on the novel by Mark Twain. Winfield would recall late in his career that as a young actor he had played one of the two leads in Of Mice and Men in local repertory, made up in whiteface, since a black actor playing it would have been unthinkable. Winfield also starred in miniseries, including Scarlett, and two based on the works of novelist Alex Haley: Roots: The Next Generations and Queen: The Story of an American Family.
Winfield gained a new segment of fans for his brief but memorable roles in several science fiction television series and movies. He portrayed starship Starfleet Captain Terrell, an unwilling minion of the villain Khan, in Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, and Lieutenant Ed Traxler, a friendly but crusty cop partnered with Lance Henriksen in The Terminator. In 1996, he was part of the 'name' ensemble cast in Tim Burton's comic homage to 1950s science fiction Mars Attacks!, playing the complacently self-satisfied Lt. General Casey. On the small screen he appeared as Dathon, an alien captain who communicates in metaphor, in the Star Trek: The Next Generation episode "Darmok".[9] He also appeared in the second season Babylon 5 episode "Gropos" as General Richard Franklin, the father of regular character Dr. Stephen Franklin, and on the fairy tale sitcom The Charmings as The Evil Queen's wise-cracking Magic Mirror. He also portrayed the character of Julian Barlow in the television series 227 during its last two seasons.
Winfield also took on roles as homosexual characters in the films Mike's Murder in 1984 and again in 1998 in the film Relax...It's Just Sex. He found success off-camera due to his unique voice. He provided voices on the cartoons Spider-Man, The Magic School Bus, Happily Ever After: Fairy Tales for Every Child, Batman Beyond, Gargoyles, K10C, and The Simpsons, on the latter voicing the Don King parody Lucius Sweet. In his voiceover career, he is perhaps best known as the narrator for the A&E true crime series City Confidential, a role he began in 1998 and continued with until his death in 2004. Throughout his career, Winfield frequently managed to perform in the theater. His only Broadway production, Checkmates, in 1988, co-starring Ruby Dee, was also the Broadway debut of Denzel Washington. He also appeared in productions at the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, and The Shakespeare Theatre in Washington, D.C. Winfield was nominated for an Emmy Award for his performances in King and Roots: The Next Generations. He won an Emmy Award, in 1995, for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series, for his appearance as Judge Harold Nance in an episode of the CBS drama Picket Fences.
Winfield was gay, but remained discreet about it in the public eye. Prior to realizing his sexuality, he had a relationship with his Sounder co-star Cicely Tyson for 18 months.[10] His partner of 30 years, architect Charles Gillan Jr., died on March 5, 2002, of bone cancer. Winfield long battled obesity and diabetes. He died of a heart attack in 2004 at age 64, at Queen of Angels – Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center in Los Angeles.[11] Winfield and Gillan are interred together at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Los Angeles.[12]

TITLE: Samer Hamadeh
Samer Hamadeh is an American entrepreneur and the founder and CEO of the on-demand wellness company Zeel and co-founder and former CEO of Vault.com. The first Zeel service, Massage On Demand®, and its associated iOS and Android apps, was launched in the greater New York City area on April 2, 2013[1] and expanded to the San Francisco Bay Area, Los Angeles Metropolitan Area and South Florida on August 29, 2014.[2]
Hamadeh began his career as an associate at the Los Angeles management consulting firm L.E.K. Consulting,[3] where he focused on corporate and business strategy. Before that, he co-founded and managed a customized textbook printing company, worked at Chevron Corporation, and co-authored The Internship Bible and America’s Top Internships published by Random House's Princeton Review imprint.[4]
In 1996, Hamadeh co-founded Vault.com and served as CEO[5] until the company was sold to the New York private equity firm Veronis Suhler Stevenson in October 2007.[6] His Vault.com co-founders were Mark Oldman and H.S. “Sam” Hamadeh.
Hamadeh sits on the board of the non-profit PeaceWorks Foundation[7] and is or has been a board observer, angel investor and advisor in two dozen early-stage companies, including Directly, Campusfood.com (sold to GrubHub Seamless[8]), Crunched, Splurgy, and PublicStuff (now part of Accela[9]).[3] Samer is also a mentor at several accelerators, including German Accelerator[10], Lazaridis Institute[11], Blueprint Health, NYCSeedStart, and First Growth Venture Network, as well as a member of Young Presidents' Organization[3] and the Executive Board of Venture for America.[12]
Hamadeh holds a Bachelor of Science degree in chemistry and a Master of Science degree in chemical engineering from Stanford University and is a David Rockefeller Fellow.[13] He is a scout at Lightspeed Venture Partners, which he joined in January 2010 as an entrepreneur in residence.[14] He is married to the American television journalist Alison Harmelin.[15]

TITLE: Gretchen Carlson
Gretchen Elizabeth Carlson (born June 21, 1966[1]) is an American journalist, author, and former television commentator.
She was named one of Time Magazine's  100 Most Influential People In The World in 2017.[3] Carlson was the 1989 Miss America while representing her native state of Minnesota. She graduated from Stanford University with honors before embarking on a career in television. Gaining experience as anchor and reporter for several local network affiliates, she joined CBS News as a correspondent in 2000 and became the co-host of the Saturday edition of The Early Show.
In 2005, Carlson moved to Fox News Channel and became the co-host of the morning show Fox & Friends along with Steve Doocy and Brian Kilmeade. In 2013, she announced her departure from Fox & Friends and soon thereafter launched a new program called The Real Story with Gretchen Carlson. Her contract with Fox News expired on June 23, 2016. On July 6, she filed a lawsuit against then Fox News Chairman and CEO Roger Ailes claiming sexual harassment.[4] Subsequently, dozens of other women also stepped forward to accuse Ailes of harassment,[5] and Ailes was forced to resign under pressure.[6] In September 2016, Carlson and 21st Century Fox settled the lawsuit for $20 million.[7]
Her autobiography, Getting Real, was published in 2015 by Viking. Her second book, Be Fierce: Stop Harassment and Take Your Power Back[8] was published by Hachette in 2017 and became a New York Times Bestseller.
Carlson was raised in a Lutheran family in Anoka, Minnesota, the daughter of Karen Barbara (Hyllengren) and Lee Roy Carlson.[9][10] She is of Swedish descent.[11] Her grandfather was the pastor of the then second-largest Lutheran church in the United States.[12] She graduated from Anoka-Hennepin School District 11's Anoka High School, where she was a 1984 class valedictorian.[13] One of her childhood babysitters was Michele Bachmann, the future Republican congresswoman.[14]
Growing up, Carlson was a violinist, who played on radio and television.[15]
In 1984, Carlson was elected as one of the Anoka Homecoming attendants.[15] She won the title of Miss Minnesota in 1988.[16]
Carlson graduated from Stanford University, where she studied organizational behavior.[17] While there, she spent a study-abroad year at Oxford University, studying the works of Virginia Woolf.[17]
In September 2011, Carlson was named to the inaugural class of the Anoka High School Hall of Fame.[15][18]
A year after becoming Miss America in 1989, Carlson secured a role on WRIC-TV as a co-anchor on the network and political commentator. Style Weekly deemed it a coup for WRIC-TV as it was a "low rated channel" at the time.[19] In 1992, she joined WCPO-TV as a media commentator and remained at the station for a period of two years.[20] She later worked at WOIO, where Carlson and her colleague Denise Dufala, became the first women to co-anchor a primetime major-market newscast.[21]
Next, Carlson was the co-anchor of the Saturday edition of The Early Show on CBS along with Russ Mitchell. She joined CBS News as a correspondent in 2000 and began working on The Early Show in 2002. Before her tenure at CBS, she served as a weekend anchor and reporter for KXAS-TV in Fort Worth, Texas, and was an anchor and reporter at WOIO-TV in Cleveland, Ohio, and for WCPO-TV, in Cincinnati. She began her television career in Richmond, Virginia, as a political reporter for WRIC-TV.[22]
She was moved to Fox & Friends initially as a weekend substitute host. But on September 25, 2006, a shifting of anchors, which included E.D. Hill moving to the 10 a.m. hour of Fox News Live, opened a weekday slot on Fox & Friends, which she filled. She co-hosted with Steve Doocy and Brian Kilmeade for several years. She left Fox & Friends in September 2013 to anchor a one-hour daytime program, The Real Story with Gretchen Carlson, beginning in the fall of 2013, taking part of the slot opened by Megyn Kelly's move to primetime.[23][24]
On July 6, 2016, Carlson filed a sexual harassment lawsuit against Fox News chairman Roger Ailes in the Superior Court of New Jersey and confirmed on her Twitter account that she was no longer with Fox News.[25] In her complaint, Carlson alleged that she was fired from her program for refusing Ailes' sexual advances.[25] Ailes at the time claimed the accusations were false, while the law firm representing Carlson claimed ten other women had contacted them to speak of Ailes' behavior at Fox News.[26]
Carlson's allegations received widespread media coverage.[27] After Carlson came forward, six more women spoke to Gabriel Sherman of New York magazine, alleging that Ailes had sexually harassed them and that Ailes "spoke openly of expecting women to perform sexual favors in exchange for job opportunities."[28] Shortly thereafter, Carlson sat down for an interview with John Koblin of The New York Times, saying, "I wanted to stand up for other women who maybe facing  similar circumstances."[29]
As the case progressed, Carlson reached out directly to her fans, thanking them in a series of Twitter videos[30][31] and offering her support for fellow victims of sexual harassment.[32] She also criticized Fox's attempt to force her claims to be adjudicated via closed-door mandatory arbitration rather than in court. Fox filed court papers arguing that Carlson was compelled by her contract to adjudicate her claims in arbitration.[33]  Carlson said: "Forcing victims of sexual harassment into secret arbitration proceedings is wrong, because it means nobody finds out what really happened."[33]
After Ailes resigned on July 21, 2016,[34] Carlson said she felt "relief that now I would be believed," though she also "felt angry that it took so long" for Ailes to step down.[35]
On September 6, 2016, 21st Century Fox announced that it had settled the lawsuit with Carlson. The settlement was reportedly $20 million. As part of the settlement, 21st Century Fox apologized to Carlson, saying, "We sincerely regret and apologize for the fact that Gretchen was not treated with the respect and dignity that she and all of our colleagues deserve."[7]
In April 2018, Carlson reached a first-look development deal with A&E Networks, under which she would host three documentary specials across its channels, such as Lifetime. Gretchen Carlson: Breaking the Silence focuses on the every woman story of workplace sexual harassment and premiered on Lifetime on January 14, 2019.[36][37]
In 2017, Carlson released her second book, Be Fierce. The book discussed cases of sexual harassment and went onto be a NY Times bestseller. She also appeared on two TED talks, one discussing women's rights and sexual harassment in the workplace, and the other discussing the hyper-partisan political times we live in and how we might come together as a nation to solve issues.[38]
On January 1, 2018, Carlson was elected chairwoman of the board of directors of the Miss America Organization, a volunteer position.[39] Shortly after joining as Chairwoman, Carlson's first major decision was to remove the swimsuit competition from the pageant, following a unanimous vote from the Board of Directors. It was reported in CNN that Carlson's goals were to transition the pageant into "Miss America 2.0", where the swimsuit competitions would be replaced with on-stage interviews. The move aimed to shift focus from appearances to achievements, in light of the recent Me Too movement.[40]
The move divided opinion mostly within the organization. Months into her tenure as Chair of the Board of Miss America, 22 states held a vote of no confidence[41] in the leadership of both Carlson and CEO Regina Hopper demanding their resignations, citing a lack of transparency and adherence to best practices.[42]
Calls for resignation came as several board members (according to themselves) were abruptly forced to resign. Former Miss Americas Kate Shindle and Laura Kaeppeler Fleiss listed "toxic culture" as their reason for departing from the board in June 2018. Former Miss North Carolina Jennifer Vaden Barth and Former Miss Maine Valerie Crooker Clemens, detailed they were forced to resign when Carlson issued a letter stating they were trying to gain control of the organization, the Wall Street Journal reported.[41]
On August 10, 2018, 11 former Miss Americas released a statement[43] calling for both Carlson and Hopper to resign. The former Miss Americas say that following an email scandal[44] that resulted in the exit of the former CEO and chairman of the board Sam Haskell in December 2017, they were given the opportunity to install "our very own sisters." Former titleholders assumed temporary co-chair roles on the board. From there, Carlson was supposed to head up a national search to find a new CEO.[43] The letter continued on to say that Carlson "selected the sole candidate for board consideration and together they have taken the organization in a direction that we do not condone."[43]  Hopper helped orchestrate[44] the removal of previous leadership by leaking emails to the attention of Dick Clark Productions, which eventually dropped the organization.[45] In August 2018, Miss America 2018 Cara Mund wrote a letter to her fellow Miss America titleholders alleging that Carlson and Hopper "silenced me, reduced me, marginalized me, and essentially erased me in my role as Miss America."[46] Mund went on to say that after the new board took over in January, she "was given three talking points" and told to stick to them: That "Miss America is relevant"; that "the #MeToo movement started with a Miss America"; and that both she and Carlson were graduates of elite colleges.[47]
In early 2019, it was announced that the Miss America brand would return to NBC.[48] The return was seen as a coup for Miss America under Carlson's leadership, as it would raise much-needed funds prior to its 100th anniversary.[49] After securing the network deal, Carlson resigned from the pageant in June 2019.[50]
In 2019, Carlson's career at Fox News was portrayed on the Showtime miniseries, The Loudest Voice. Her role as co-anchor at Fox News was depicted by actress Naomi Watts. Watts stated in interviews that the story of Carlson was "inspiring" and that she dealt with multiple scenarios with "dignity and grace."[51]
Other cast members included Russell Crowe as Roger Ailes, Seth MacFarlane as Brian Lewis and Sienna Miller as Beth Tilson. The fifth episode in the series portrayed the deteriorating working relationship between Carlson and Ailes from 2012 onwards. Many incidents were portrayed to the public for the first time, since Carlson was unable to speak directly about the events, due to a confidentiality clause in the settlement between her and Fox News.[52][53]
The Loudest Voice portrayed a number of events at Fox News which were set up by executives to discredit Carlson shortly before she left the organization. Naomi Watts spoke of one such event in an interview, where a random guest was put on her show shortly before it aired live, with the sole goal of attacking Carlson on live television.[51]
The series aired the audio recordings taken by Carlson during her time at Fox News for the first time. The recordings were of various incidents at Fox where Carlson was sexually harassed by Ailes and other colleagues at Fox News. The show also follows the incidents leading up to Carlson reporting the sexual harassment she received.[54] The Loudest Voice then portrayed her demotion and the events that followed her filing the internal complaint, many of which were recorded.[55] The recordings went on to play a major part in the settlement negotiations between Carlson and Fox News.[56]
Bombshell, a film portraying Carlson's career at Fox News, was released on December 13, 2019. Carlson is played by Nicole Kidman, with other cast members including Margot Robbie as Kayla Pospisil (a composite character), Charlize Theron as Megyn Kelly, and John Lithgow as Roger Ailes.[57] The film follows events at Fox News in the run-up to Ailes resigning from the organization.[57]
Getting Real was Carlson's first book, which was released in 2015. Since the book was released prior to her leaving Fox News, the book focuses predominantly on Miss America and the challenges women face when in certain roles. During an interview with The National Review, Carlson stated "I faced negative stereotypes immediately after becoming Miss America. It was like my résumé evaporated...When people don't want to debate you on the smart issues of the day, it's just a lot easier to call you a dumb blonde from Fox."[58]
In her memoir, Carlson alluded to sexism and other forms of discrimination she and others had faced.[58] Following the Roger Ailes case, many media commentators revisited Getting Real with a fresh approach. Some stated that the book was Carlson's first steps to standing up to the harassment she had faced while working at Fox News.[59]
In 2017, she released her second book, Be Fierce: Stop Harassment And Take Your Power Back. Carlson used the publication as a platform to tell the stories of women from across the United States who had experienced sexual harassment. During interviews, women gave multiple examples of how they had been objectified by male coworkers.[60]
In 2017, Carlson created the "Gift of Courage Fund" and also the Gretchen Carlson Leadership Initiative (GCLI).[61] The GCLI partnered with All In Together, with the aim of helping individuals who had suffered from "gender-based violence, discrimination, and harassment." At the time of launch, the initiative was held across thirteen cities in the United States.[62]
USA Today reported that Carlson would be donating all the proceeds from her second book to the Gift of Courage fund.[63] In 2018, the fund also supplied the grant to create the Gretchen Carlson March of Dimes Advocacy Fellows, a program that selected 20 women from across the country to become more civically involved in promoting legislation and policies benefitting women and children.[64]
Carlson has frequently supported Miss You Can Do It, a pageant where it is "more important than the contestant's outfits is what is in their hearts." Founded by Abbey Curran, a former Miss Iowa USA winner who was born with cerebral palsy, the pageant honors girls and young women who live with special needs and challenges.[65]
In 2016, Carlson served as the pageant's MC.[66]
On October 4, 1997, Carlson married sports agent Casey Close.[67][68] They live in Greenwich, Connecticut,[69] with their two children.[11][70]
She announced on Fox & Friends on June 9, 2009, also repeated on Glenn Beck's Fox News program, that her parents' car dealership had been selected for closure as part of the General Motors reorganization and bankruptcy.[71][72] A year later, the Star Tribune reported that "It took an act of Congress, a national TV appeal and maybe a little bit of history on the owners' side, but Main Motor, the Anoka car dealership that Lee and Karen Carlson's family has owned for 91 years, will keep its General Motors dealership after all."[73]

TITLE: Dana Gioia
Michael Dana Gioia (/ˈdʒɔɪ.ə/; born December 24, 1950) is an American poet and writer. He spent the first fifteen years of his career writing at night while working for General Foods Corporation. After his 1991 essay "Can Poetry Matter?" in The Atlantic generated international attention, Gioia quit business to pursue writing full-time. He served as the chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) between 2003 and 2009. Gioia has published five books of poetry and three volumes of literary criticism as well as opera libretti, song cycles, translations, and over two dozen literary anthologies.
Gioia is the Judge Widney Professor of Poetry and Public Culture at the University of Southern California, where he now teaches, as well as a Senior Fellow at the Trinity Forum.[1] In December 2015 he became the California State Poet Laureate.[2] He currently divides his time between Los Angeles and Sonoma County, California.
Michael Dana Gioia was born in Hawthorne, California, the son of Michael Gioia and Dorothy Ortez. Of Italian and Mexican descent, Gioia grew up in Hawthorne, "speaking Italian in a Mexican neighborhood", he said.[3] He attended Catholic schools for twelve years, including Junipero Serra High School in Gardena.[4] His younger brother is jazz and blues historian Ted Gioia.[5][6]
Gioia was the first person in his family to go to college and earned a Bachelor of Arts from Stanford University in 1973, a master's degree from Harvard University in 1975, and a Master of Business Administration from Stanford Business School in 1977. As both a graduate and undergraduate, Gioia was editor of Stanford's literary journal the Sequoia Magazine.[7]
After business school, Gioia joined General Foods in 1977, where he eventually became vice president of marketing. He was on the team that invented Jell-O Jigglers[8] and is credited with helping reverse a long-running sales decline for Jello.[9]
In 1992, Gioia resigned from his position as a vice president at General Foods to pursue a full-time career as a poet.
Although Gioia writes in both free and formal verse, he is usually classified as one of the "New Formalists", who write in traditional forms and have declared that a return to rhyme and more fixed meters is the new avant-garde. He is a particular proponent of accentual verse.[10] While working at General Foods, Gioia wrote in the evenings, producing several books of poetry and translation.

Gioia has written several collections of criticisms. In his landmark 1991 essay "Can Poetry Matter?" Gioia objects to how marginalized poetry has become in America.[11] He believes that university English departments appropriated the field from the public:.mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}The voluntary audience of serious contemporary poetry consists mainly of poets, would-be poets, and a few critics. Additionally, there is a slightly larger involuntary and ephemeral audience consisting of students who read contemporary poetry as assigned course work. In sociological terms, it is surely significant that most members of the poetry subculture are literally paid to read poetry: most established poets and critics now work for large educational institutions. Over the last half-century, literary bohemia had been replaced by an academic bureaucracy.[citation needed]Gioia has written or co-written over two dozen literary anthologies and college textbooks, including An Introduction to Poetry (with X. J. Kennedy). He has also written many essays and reviews. He also wrote a column for San Francisco magazine as their music critic.
It was as a poet that Gioia first began to attract widespread attention in the early 1980s, with frequent appearances in The Hudson Review, Poetry, and The New Yorker. In the same period, he published a number of essays and book reviews. Both his poetry and his prose helped to establish him as one of the leading figures in the New Formalist movement, which emphasized a return to traditional poetic techniques such as rhyme, meter, and fixed form, and to narrative and non-autobiographical subject matter.
As a result, Daily Horoscope (1986), his first collection, was one of the most anticipated and widely discussed poetry volumes of its time. Its contents range widely in form, length and theme. Among its more notable—and widely reprinted—pieces are "California Hills in August", "In Cheever Country", and "The Sunday News".
The Gods of Winter (1991), his second collection contains "Planting a Sequoia" about the tragic loss of his infant son, as well as the long dramatic monologues, "Counting the Children", in which an accountant has a disturbing interaction with a grotesque doll collection, and "The Homecoming", in which a murderer explains his motivations for returning home to commit one more murder. Simultaneously published in Britain, it was chosen as the main selection of the U.K. Poetry Book Society.
Interrogations at Noon (2001), Gioia's third collection, was the winner of the 2002 American Book Award. It includes both translation and many original poems in which contemplative and occasionally wistful notes predominate, as in the concluding stanza of "Summer Storm": "And memory insists on pining / For places it never went, / As if life would be happier / Just by being different."[citation needed] His poem "Words" explores the power and limits of language to understand the world. Many of the other poems examine the lives of poets, painters, and composers.
Pity the Beautiful (2012) marked Gioia's return to poetry after his term in public office as chairman of the NEA. As with his previous books of poetry, it featured both metrical verse and free verse. "Special Treatments Ward" garnered notice for its description of a pediatric cancer ward. "Haunted", the central poem in the collection, is a long dramatic monologue that is both love story and ghost story.
99 Poems: New & Selected (2016) is Gioia's latest book of poetry. It collects his old poems along with several new poems. It was the winner of the 2018 Poets' Prize.

In December 2015, Gioia was named Poet Laureate of California. As Poet Laureate, Gioia intends to visit each of the state's 58 counties and give a poetry reading.[12][13] Gioia has emphasized visiting smaller and mid-sized communities, saying,My life changed for the better by falling in love with poetry. It made me a better student, made me a more alert human being. And I'd like to try to bring the gifts of poetry to the broadest audience possible.[14]Gioia's poetry is anthologized in The Norton Anthology of Poetry, The Oxford Book of American Poetry, and several other anthologies. His poems have been translated into French, German, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Romanian, Bulgarian, Chinese, and Arabic.
Dana Gioia has frequently collaborated with musicians. Trained in music, he had originally hoped to become a composer before deciding to pursue poetry. Gioia's poetry has been set to music in many contemporary styles including classical, jazz, rock, opera, and country. The classical composers with whom he has worked include Ned Rorem, Lori Laitman, Morten Lauridsen, Paul Salerni, Alva Henderson, David Conte, Tom Cipullo, Stefania de Kenessey, and John Harbison, among many others. His jazz collaborators include Dave Brubeck, Paquito D'Rivera, and Helen Sung.
Gioia's most significant musical collaborations have been in opera. Gioia has written three opera libretti. His first opera, Nosferatu, with music by Alva Henderson, was jointly premiered by Rimrock Opera and Opera Idaho in 2004.[15] His second libretto, Tony Caruso's Final Broadcast, with music by Paul Salerni, won the National Opera Association award for best new chamber opera and was premiered in Los Angeles in 2008.[16] Both of these works have been recorded. His latest opera, The Three Feathers, with music by Lori Laitman, was premiered by Virginia Tech and Opera Roanoke in 2014.[17]
In 2002, Gioia was nominated as NEA Chairman by President George W. Bush. Gioia served as chairman from 2003 to 2009, and worked to bring new visibility to the agency through a series of national initiatives that stressed broad democratic reach and artistic excellence. He believed that neither the arts nor art education should be divisive or partisan issues and made a point to reach out to NEA critics in the United States Congress in an effort to find common ground. As a practical matter, Gioia expanded the agency's reach to put at least one NEA grant in every congressional district. Gioia's reasoning for this initiative was to guarantee that the NEA was serving Americans in all parts of the country and to acquaint every member of Congress with at least one arts organization in their district.
With the support of both Congressional Democrats and Republicans, Gioia gained a $20.1 million increase[18] in his agency's budget and for the remainder of his tenure, silenced the perpetual requests from conservatives to defund the agency. "Dana is a superb politician. He knows how to talk to Congress and to the arts community, and to state and federal agencies and to the complex, gigantic, fire-breathing beast called the White House," said David Gelernter of Yale University. Bill Kauffman called Gioia "the best poet in government service since President Tyler sent John Howard Payne, who wrote 'Home! Sweet Home!' to Tunis." In November 2006, Business Week magazine profiled Gioia as "The Man Who Saved the NEA".[19] Five years after Gioia left office, The Washington Post referred to him as one of "two of the NEA's strongest leaders".[20]
Gioia stepped down from the NEA in January 2009 to return to poetry.[21][22]
While Chairman, Gioia created several national initiatives each around a specific art. "We have a generation of Americans growing up who have never been to the theater, the symphony, opera, dance, who have never heard fine jazz, and who increasingly don't read," said Gioia,[23] in justifying his efforts to bring large scale national initiatives of artistic excellence to millions of Americans. The late New York Times columnist William Safire referred to Gioia's NEA national initiatives as "A Gioia to Behold".[24]
His program "Shakespeare in American Communities" gave grants to more than 40 American theatre companies to tour small and medium-sized communities.[25] Since the launch of the program in 2003, the tours have visited thousands of communities in all 50 states and more than 4,000 schools, were seen by millions of students, and provided work for hundreds of actors, directors, and crew.
His program The Big Read aimed to increase literacy across America. In June 2004, the NEA released a research publication, Reading At Risk: A Survey of Literary Reading in America, that detailed a 20-year decline in literary reading among American adults. As a writer, Gioia found this a dangerous trend for a democracy that relies on an informed, engaged citizenry. In response, Gioia created another national initiative, The Big Read. Based on the "one city, one book" concept, The Big Read brought together partner organizations across the country to encourage entire communities to read the same book. It was launched as a pilot program with ten communities in 2006, and went national in 2007, eventually becoming the largest literary program in the history of the federal government. Millions of dollars[26] in NEA grants have supported Big Read programs with more than 25,000 local organizations, including libraries, museums, newspapers, mayors' offices, and private businesses. It also became a vehicle for international cultural exchange with Big Read programs in Russia, Egypt, and Mexico.
In 2006, Gioia created Poetry Out Loud, a national poetry recitation contest for students. Each year, some 375,000 students participate, beginning at the high school classroom level. Classroom winners advance to school-wide recitation competitions, and school champions advance to regional and state competitions, and ultimately to the National Finals in Washington, DC. The winner receives a $20,000 scholarship. In an interview[27] with Poetry Daily, Gioia noted that the competitive aspect of the program inspires both the students and the audience. "We did not predict that aspect of the Poetry Out Loud, but it was apparent from the first time we held a public event. The audience displayed an intensity of attention that is very rare at ordinary poetry readings."
Gioia also expanded re-energized the NEA Jazz Masters, which is the nation's highest honor in jazz music, in order to raise the visibility of artists who he felt were undervalued in their own country. Gioia believed the NEA Jazz Master award should be the jazz equivalent of a Pulitzer Prize. As part of the NEA Jazz Masters initiative, Gioia created NEA Jazz Masters on Tour, to give artists more opportunities to perform live, and NEA Jazz in the Schools, a web-based curriculum produced in partnership with Jazz at Lincoln Center.
Gioia's term as NEA Chairman coincided with the peak of U.S. involvement in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. During that time, Gioia worked to include the military and military families in NEA national initiatives. He expanded his "Shakespeare in American Communities" program to include tours to military bases. The NEA also sent young artist programs from opera companies around the country to military bases with the Great American Voices Military Base Tour.[28]
In 2004, Gioia launched Operation Homecoming: Writing the Wartime Experience, which collected writings from U.S. troops and their families about their wartime experiences in Afghanistan, Iraq, and stateside. Between 2004 and 2009, Operation Homecoming conducted more than 60 writing workshops for troops, their families, and veterans at military installations across the country and in war zones. Many of the writings were collected in the anthology Operation Homecoming. The anthology was named one of the "Best of 2006" non-fiction by The Washington Post. There is an archive of writings housed at the Library of Congress. A documentary based on Operation Homecoming, produced by the Documentary Group, was nominated for a 2006 Academy Award.
Dana Gioia has won several prizes and received 11 honorary doctorates.  
In 2007, Gioia gave the commencement speech for his alma mater, Stanford University. In May 2014, National Public Radio included Gioia's speech on its list of "The Best Commencement Speeches, Ever", dating back to 1774.[29]  In his speech Gioia discussed the low esteem in which American society holds its artists.
On February 23, 1980, he and Mary Elizabeth Hiecke (born May 26, 1953) were married. They had three sons, Michael Jasper Gioia (who died in infancy); Michael Frederick "Mike" Gioia; and Theodore Jasper "Ted" Gioia. His poem "Planting a Sequoia" is based on his experience of losing his infant son.

TITLE: Linus Liang
Linus Liang is the co-founder of Embrace, a social enterprise startup that aims to help the 20 million premature and low birth-weight babies born every year, through a low-cost infant warmer.[1] Liang also co-founded CLZ Concepts[2] and was an early employee of Zynga.
Previously, Liang served as the Chief Operations Officer of Embrace Innovations, which has a mission to design and bring to market healthcare technologies for the developing world, starting with the infant warmer. The Embrace infant warmer costs about 1% of a traditional incubator,[3] and is currently being distributed across clinics in India, with pilots being conducted in 10 countries.  The Embrace infant warmer is estimated to have helped over 50,000 babies to date.
Liang also served as the first Chief Operations Officer of Embrace, the non-profit arm of the organization, before stepping into the COO role for Embrace Innovations, the for-profit social enterprise that was spun off in 2012.[4]
Liang was born in Berkeley, California and raised in Saratoga, California. He attended Saratoga High School and graduated in 1999.
Liang holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Computer science (CS) from the University of California, Berkeley, where he transferred after first having attended De Anza College. He worked at Microsoft as a Program Manager for two years, and then attended Stanford University to further his CS studies, earning a Master of Science degree.[5]
In 2007, Liang dropped out of Stanford to start a Facebook Application game company called CLZ Concepts with two fellow students.[6] The games grew to having over 20 million users and CLZ Concepts was acquired shortly afterwards by Zynga.[7]
Later, while finishing his degree at Stanford, Liang and a few other fellow graduate students were assigned a class project to create a low-cost infant incubator that could be used in rural areas.[1][8][9] In 2008, they co-founded Embrace, a 501(c)(3) non-profit, to bring their project to life.[10][11] In January 2012, Embrace moved into a hybrid structure.[12] The non-profit entity, Embrace, donates infant warmers to the neediest areas through NGO partners, and provides educational programs on newborn health alongside the distribution of warmers. The for-profit social enterprise, Embrace Innovations, sells the warmers to paying entities, including governments and private clinics, all focusing on emerging markets. Embrace believes that this type of "hybrid" structure allows it to most effectively achieve its mission: to supply its infant warmers to every baby in need.[13]  Embrace Innovations, the for-profit social enterprise, raised its Series A round of financing in 2012 from Vinod Khosla's Impact Fund and Capricorn Investment Group.
Embrace Innovations' vision is to develop a line of disruptive healthcare technologies to reduce infant mortality in developing countries.
In 2013, Liang and the other co-founders of Embrace, Jane Chen, Nag Murty, and Rahul Panicker were awarded the prestigious Economist Innovation Award, under the category of Social and Economic Innovation.[14] In the same year, the organization was also recognized as Schwab Social Entrepreneurs of the Year by the World Economic Forum.[15]

TITLE: Venky Harinarayan
Venky Harinarayan is an Indian entrepreneur. He is the co-founder of Cambrian Ventures and Kosmix. Harinarayan also co-founded Junglee Corp. and played a significant role at Amazon.com in the late 1990s. Originally from Chennai, India, Harinarayan has a PhD in Computer Science from Stanford University and a Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science from IIT Madras (Class of 1988).  While at Stanford, Harinarayan co-wrote a paper[1] on implementing data cubes with Anand Rajaraman and Jeff Ullman, which is among the top 600 most cited computer science articles over the last 20 years.[2]
Together with four other engineers, Harinarayan founded Junglee Corp. in 1996. Junglee Corp. pioneered Internet comparison shopping.[3] Junglee Corp. was acquired by Amazon.com Inc. in August 1998 for 1.6 million shares of stock valued at $250 million.[4] Harinarayan then became general manager at Amazon.com, where he worked with founder and CEO Jeff Bezos to help create Amazon.com's marketplace business. Marketplace is currently[when?] Amazon.com's most profitable and fastest-growing business, accounting for almost 25% of all US transactions.[5]  Harinarayan also was an inventor of the concept[6] underlying Amazon.com’s Mechanical Turk.
Harinarayan and his business partner, Anand Rajaraman, co-founded Cambrian Ventures, an early stage venture capital fund, in 2000. Cambrian went on to back several companies later acquired by Google.  Cambrian funded companies like Mobissimo, Aster Data Systems and TheFind.com.[7] Harinarayan also helped to create search advertising startup Efficient Frontier, which was acquired by Adobe Systems in 2011 for $400 million.[8] In 2005, the business partners co-founded Kosmix, a website which organized the World Wide Web by topic.[9] In 2017, Harinarayan became a special partner to NeoTribe Ventures.[10]

TITLE: William G. Howell
William G. Howell (born September 18, 1971) is an American political scientist and author. He is the Sydney Stein Professor in American Politics at Chicago Harris and a professor in the Department of Political Science and the College at the University of Chicago.[1] He has written widely on separation-of-powers issues and American political institutions, especially the presidency.
Howell attended Wesleyan University as an undergraduate, earning his B.A., with high honors, in 1993. Howell completed his Ph.D. in Political Science with concentrations in American Politics and Political Institutions in 2000. He was the recipient of E.E. Schattschneider Award for the best dissertation in American politics (2001), by the American Political Science Association and recipient of the best dissertation on the presidency (2001), by the Center for Presidential Studies at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service,[2] Texas A&M University. Howell taught in the Political Science Department at the University of Wisconsin-Madison from 2000-2002, before moving to Harvard University in 2002. He taught in the Government Department at Harvard until 2006 when he came to the University of Chicago. Additionally, he has been a fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University.[3]
Howell is currently working on research projects on Obama's education initiatives, distributive politics, and the normative foundations of executive power. Howell recently published two books, one with coauthors Saul Jackman and Jon Rogowski entitled The Wartime President: Executive Influence and the Nationalizing Politics of Threat (University of Chicago Press, 2013); and the other, with David Brent, entitled Thinking about the Presidency: The Primacy of Power (Princeton University Press, 2013).[4]  He also is the co-author (with Jon Pevehouse) of While Dangers Gather: Congressional Checks on Presidential War Powers (Princeton University Press, 2007); author of Power without Persuasion: The Politics of Direct Presidential Action, one of Choice's Top Academic Titles for 2004, (Princeton University Press, 2003);[5] co-author (with Paul Peterson) of The Education Gap: Vouchers and Urban Schools (Brookings Institution Press, 2002); co-author (with John Coleman and Ken Goldstein) of an introductory American politics textbook series; and editor of additional volumes on the presidency and school boards. His research also has appeared in numerous professional journals and edited volumes.
He has published about presidential power and education policy in various media outlets including the New York Times [6] and the Wall Street Journal.[7] Howell has published in scholarly journals including the American Journal of Political Science,[8] American Political Science Review,[9] International Organization,[10]Presidential Studies Quarterly,[11] Foreign Affairs,[12]Journal of Policy Analysis and Management,[13] and Journal of Politics.[14] Howell has been a consultant for the ABC News election decision team since 2013.

TITLE: Ron Hayes
(2) Betty Endicott (married 1964, divorced 1974) 
(3) Caroline Muir (married 1982, divorced 1986) 
Ronald G. Hayes (February 26, 1929 – October 1, 2004)[1] was an American television actor who, as an activist in the environmental movement, worked for the establishment of the first Earth Day, observed on April 22, 1970. He was a member of the Sierra Club and a founder of the ecological interest group Wilderness World.[2]
In his acting career, Hayes appeared primarily on westerns, but he also had starring or recurring roles in several series, including The Everglades, The Rounders, and Lassie.[3]
Hayes was born to Sam Hayes and the former Marion de Rode Brune in San Francisco. Both parents were heavily involved in the theater and acting. Hayes graduated in 1952 from nearby Stanford University with a degree in foreign relations.[2] Hayes was a United States Marine in the Korean War. After military service, Hayes worked for radio station KSJO in San Jose, California.[3]
In 1957, Hayes moved with his wife, Joan, and their three children, Vanessa, Peter, and Heidi, to Hollywood to launch an acting career. He was soon cast in his first engagement in 1957 as Jeff Miller in the episode "A Case of Sudden Death" of the NBC legal drama On Trial, or The Joseph Cotten Show starring Joseph Cotten. He was further cast as Lieutenant Harry Summers in the episode "Family Portrait" of Lee Marvin's NBC police drama, M Squad.[3]
Late in 1957, Hayes was cast as "The Durango Kid" in the episode "Town of Fear" of the ABC/Warner Brothers western series, Cheyenne, starring Clint Walker in the title role. Walter Coy played Sheriff Sam Townley in this episode, in whose jail the Kid was being held prior to his ill-fated escape. John Doucette was cast as Bill Jenkins, the leader of a lynch mob that plans to remove the Kid from jail and to hang him.[4]
Hayes appeared again with Walter Coy, along with Paul Birch, and Robert Knapp, in the 1959 film Gunmen from Laredo, the story of a man seeking revenge for the murder of his wife and the unlikely path to closure for his grief.[citation needed]
In the 1961–62 season, Hayes appeared in all 38 episodes as Lincoln Vail, officer of Florida's Everglades County Patrol, in the half-hour syndicated adventure series The Everglades. After The Everglades, Hayes appeared in more Westerns, including the last season of NBC's Laramie in two episodes "Shadow of the Past" and "Protective Custody". He then appeared in Jeffrey Hunter's Temple Houston as Lambert in the episode "Billy Hart" and on The Virginian as Marshal Brett Cole in the episode "Siege", both on NBC. From 1960 to 1964, Hayes appeared as different characters in eight episodes of Wagon Train. In 1964, he appeared once on John Gavin's Destry as Jethro Jellico in "Blood Brother-in-law". In 1965, he was cast as Jamie Brewster in the episode "A Long Way Home" of A Man Called Shenandoah.[3]
In 1962 Ron and Joan Hayes' marriage ended in a bitterly contested divorce. In early Fall 1964, he married Betty Endicott, a stunt actress on NBC's Bonanza.[5] Hayes himself appeared six times on Bonanza.[3]
From 1966, Hayes co-starred as Ben Jones in M-G-M's short-lived ABC comedy-Western series The Rounders about cowpokes on a Texas cattle ranch, with Chill Wills as rancher Jim Ed Love and Patrick Wayne, a son of John Wayne, in the role of Howdy Lewis. Other co-stars included Walker Edmiston and Strother Martin.[6] He also appeared on three 1966 episodes of the CBS animal drama Daktari playing Roy Meadows, an escaped murderer.[7]
In 1967, Hayes appeared twice as George Moran on Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color, with Roger Mobley in the title role. He appeared that same year in several episodes of the ABC soap opera General Hospital. In 1968, he appeared in the last episode of the first season of Ironside. He remained in demand for appearances on television westerns, having guest starred twice in 1968–69 on The High Chaparral in the episodes "Threshold of Courage" and "A Fella Called Kilroy". Hayes appeared in eight segments of James Arness's CBS series Gunsmoke.[3]
During 1969–72, after Robert Bray, as Forest Ranger Corey Stuart, had departed the series, Hayes appeared seven times on CBS's Lassie, six of those in 1971–1972 in the role of rancher Garth Holden. His co-stars at the time were Larry Pennell, as his brother, and Larry Wilcox as a friend of his son's.[3]
In 1979, Hayes portrayed a Sheriff Pinter in Arness's ABC series How the West Was Won. Otherwise, most of his work in the 1970s was on drama series, including Raymond Burr's  Ironside on NBC and The Mod Squad on ABC. He also appeared in three CBS series, Jack Lord's Hawaii Five-O (as Roy in the Season 3 episode "The Ransom" and as Laughlin in the Season 5 episode "The Odd-Lot Caper"), William Conrad's Cannon (as Harry Gibbons in the episode "Press Pass to the Slammer"), and Buddy Ebsen's Barnaby Jones (as Sheriff Oscar Hamlin in "Target for a Wedding"). His last recurring work was as Hank Johnson in 1980–1981 in six episodes of CBS's prime time soap opera Dallas. Thereafter, in 1983, he appeared as Tim Coulton in "Children of Jamestown" of NBC's The A-Team starring George Peppard.[3]
Hayes died at the age of 75 of complications from an acute subdural hematoma as the result of a fall near his residence in Malibu, California. He was survived by his three children (his son Peter died in September 2015) and five grandchildren.[2]
During 1958–70, Hayes appeared in at least twenty-two western series:

TITLE: Hamid Moghadam
Hamid R. Moghadam (born August 26, 1956) is an American business executive and philanthropist.[1][2][3] In 2011 Moghadam orchestrated the "merger of equals" between AMB,[4] a firm he co-founded in 1983,[1][2] and ProLogis to create Prologis, the largest logistics real estate company in the world. Moghadam currently serves as Prologis Chairman and CEO, with Prologis operating as a multinational logistics real estate investment trust (REIT) and S&P 500 company.[4][5] Among other accolades,[6][7] Moghadam is a recipient of the Ellis Island Medal of Honor.[8]
Born in 1956[9] in Iran,[10] Hamid Moghadam grew up in Tehran,[1] where his father was a businessman.[1][10] In 1969[10] he attended Aiglon College in Switzerland.[1][9][10] In 1973 Moghadam entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,[10][9] where he received Bachelor and Master of Science degrees in engineering.[10][11] In 1980 Moghadam received an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business in California.[12][1]
After business school, Moghadam stayed in the United States[2][9][2] and started his career at Homestake Mining Company. He later joined John McMahan & Associates.[13] In 1983, he and Douglas Abbey founded Abbey, Moghadam & Company.[1][2] They used a $50,000 line of credit to start[14] the firm[15] in a small office in San Francisco, California, with the partners initially taking no salary.[10] Although they planned to provide investment advisory services, according to Forbes, they soon became known for instead "helping investors revive underperforming assets."[2] They were joined by T. Robert Burke in 1984 and established AMB Institutional Realty Advisors, later named AMB Property Corp.[1] AMB invested in office, industrial and community shopping centers on behalf of large institutional investors.[14]
In the late 1980s, Moghadam changed AMB's investment strategy to focus on industrial parks and shopping centers in infill trade areas,[2] with the company beginning to exit the office market in 1987.[14] During the collapse of the office building market in the late 1980s, this shift in assets helped the company avoid significant financial repercussions.[2] AMB launched its first private equity fund in 1989, which focused on industrial and retail properties.[15] AMB consolidated several of its investment funds in 1997[10] and also went public as an REIT.[16]  In late 1997,[15] AMB closed its IPO with more than US $2.8 billion under management.[14] Joining AMB's board of directors,[17]  Moghadam became CEO of AMB Property Corporation in November 1997.[3]
Throughout 1999, Moghadam "made a series of moves that pared the company of most of its retail holdings, following the notion that e-commerce would become the high-margin road of the future."[1]  Selling its retail business around 1999 to focus solely on the industrial sector,[15] starting that year AMB sold nearly $1 billion in retail assets to institutional investors and reallocated funds into warehouse spaces.[18][19] By the end of 1999, AMB was the second-largest industrially focused REIT in the United States, with a total market capitalization of $3.5 billion.[1] President and CEO of AMB Property Corporation,[20]  he became AMB chairman in 2000.[3] AMB made its first overseas investment in 2002, developing a facility for Procter & Gamble in Mexico City.[15] In 2002, AMB initiated an international expansion program[14] focused on buying and developing distribution facilities near global trade hubs,[2] particularly in growth markets such as Latin America and Asia.[2]  AMB added an internal development division in 2004.[15][3]
In 2011[15] Moghadam announced a "merger of equals" between AMB and ProLogis to create Prologis, the largest logistics real estate company in the world.[4][5] With market value estimated at $24 billion[4]  and corporate headquarters remaining in California,[5]  the new Prologis had around $46 billion in assets under management[5] and clients such as DHL, Home Depot Inc., Unilever,[5]  and FedEx.[15] ProLogis CEO Walter Rakowich and Moghadam were appointed as the new company's co-chiefs, with Moghadam becoming the sole CEO[5] at the start of 2013.[9][3] He oversaw IPOs in Japan in 2013[21] and Mexico in 2014.[22] In 2014, Prologis operated nearly 3,000 logistics and distribution facilities for 4,700 customers across a diverse range of industries in the Americas, Asia and Europe.[23][24][25][26]
Prologis continues to operate as a publicly traded real estate investment trust (REIT)[27] on the S&P 500,[4][5][28] operating around 3,717[29][30] logistics and distribution facilities for customers in various industries[4][5][31] in the Americas, Europe, and Asia.[31] The company's platform totals 772 million square feet that is owned, managed or under development in 19 countries, with around $97 billion in assets under management.[29][30]  In 2018 he oversaw its acquisition of DCT Industrial Trust for $8.4 billion.[32] Moghadam frequently appears on major television networks to talk about the real estate industry, including CNBC,[33] Bloomberg TV, and Fox Business Network, as a real estate industry expert.[34]
In the 1990s, he served on the MIT Center for Real Estate's advisory committee,[20] and was a founding member of The Real Estate Roundtable.[25] He was also vice chairman of the National Realty Committee.[20] Moghadam was previously a trustee of the Urban Land Institute,[25] and served on the executive committee of its board of directors.[35][17]  He was also the chairman of National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT)[6] in 2004.[36]
Moghadam has served on various philanthropic and community boards in the San Francisco Bay Area.[37] He has served on the boards of organizations including the California Academy of Sciences and the Bay Area Discovery Museum,[25] and he was chairman of the Young Presidents Organization's Northern California chapter.[25][38]
Previously a trustee of Stanford University,[39][25] Moghadam is currently a board member of the Stanford Management Company,[25][12] and was formerly chairman.[12][25] Moghadam and his wife also established the Moghadam Family Professorship in the Stanford Graduate School of Business,[12]  and the Stanford Hamid and Christina Moghadam Program in Iranian Studies focuses on undergraduate courses related to Iran.[40][41]
Moghadam was named EY's 1998 Real Estate Award Winner for the Northern California Region.[42]  In 2005, Moghadam was presented with an Industry Leadership Award from the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (NAREIT).[43][36][44] He received a Lifetime of Building Award from the Commercial Real Estate Development Association (NAIOP) in 2007, and also that year he received the Wisconsin Alumni Center's Vision Setter Award.[43] Moghadam received the EY National Entrepreneur of the Year Overall Award in 2013,[45]  as well as[8] the Ellis Island Medal of Honor from the National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations Foundations, Inc. (NECO).[8][8] In 2018, Moghadam was named by Harvard Business Review as one of the 100 Best-Performing CEOs in the World for the third consecutive year,[46][7] and a number of industry publications have named him their CEO of the Year.[43]
Moghadam and his wife Christina[12] have a son together.[1][10] Moghadam, a lifelong Republican, endorsed former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for president in 2016.[47]

TITLE: Charlie Cole (lawyer)
Charles E. Cole (born October 10, 1927) was the Attorney General of Alaska from December 1990 until January 1994.[1]
Cole came to Alaska in 1954, and commenced his personal law practice in 1957.[1]
Cole served as Attorney General of Alaska during the second governorship of Wally Hickel.[1] He was honored by the Alaska Bar Association for his service for the state as Attorney General in 2011.[1]


TITLE: Arlen F. Gregorio
Arlen F. Gregorio (born September 11, 1931) is an American attorney, politician and commercial mediator. He was a member of the California State Senate from 1970 to 1978. As a Senator he chaired the Senate Health and Welfare Committee from 1979 to 1984 and was an elected member of the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors from 1979 to 1984. After leaving politics in 1985 he began a career in mediation.
Gregorio was born in San Francisco on September 11, 1931[1] to a family who has lived in California for four generations.[1][2] He grew up in the  Bernal Heights district until his family moved  to Burlingame, California, where he attended Hoover School, Burlingame High School and the College of San Mateo.[1] 
Gregorio served as a U.S. Naval Air Officer for three years in the 1950s[1] receiving the China Service Medal for combat duty.[2] He received his bachelor's and law degrees from Stanford University in 1955.[2] He was an adjunct faculty member at Stanford University, Notre Dame University in Belmont, and College of San Mateo.[3][4]
Gregorio became a member of the California State Bar in 1955.[3]  He was a partner in general law practice from 1958 to 1970 and held the position of  Assistant City Attorney for San Bruno from 1962 to 1970.[3]  He also chaired the San Mateo County Democratic Central Committee from 1964 to 1970.[1][5]
In 1970, he was elected to represent San Mateo County in the California State Senate.[6] According to fellow Senator Alan Robbins, Gregorio "refused special-interest money" and "contributions over $100".[7]  During his two terms in the Senate (1970 - 1978),[2] Gregorio authored laws dealing with legislation and campaign finance reform, alcohol and drug abuse, the arts,[2] environment, education and health.[6][8][9][10][11]  He was chairman of the Senate Health and Welfare Committee[5] from 1973 to 1978.[1] Gregorio had a particular interest in reforming campaign financing and the political process in general.[12] His political reforms included allowing the public to attend state budget conference committee meetings and to access legislator committee voting results.[13]
In 1975, Gregorio challenged then Governor Edmund G. Brown Jr. to a debate after the Governor vetoed his "alcohol tax bill."[14] In 1976 he created legislation that would give members of the public the "voting majority on most regulatory boards."[15] Gregorio lost his November 1978 Senate bid by a margin of only 90 votes after a vote recount.[1] In 1979, he won a special election to the San Mateo County Board of Supervisors and was re-elected in 1980, serving through 1984.[16] Gregorio's last political race was in 1984, when he left the Board of Supervisors to run again for the state Senate.[16][17] In that political contest, Gregorio and his opponent, Becky Morgan, set a "new Senate campaign spending record" of $1.6 million.[18]
After leaving politics, Gregorio began an attorney mediation practice in San Francisco in 1985.[2] He founded the non-profit, Peninsula Conflict Resolution Center in San Mateo, California in 1986.[2][19] In 1989, he created the first law partnership that focused exclusively on the mediation of civil trial matters.[2] The firm is known as Gregorio, Haldeman & Rotman and is located in San Francisco.[20]
Gregorio learned the Transcendental Meditation technique after reading a Wall Street Journal article about it in 1971.[21][22] He appeared with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, Clint Eastwood and others on an episode of the Merv Griffin show in 1975.[23]
He has three sons by his first marriage and began his second marriage in 1980.[1][2]

TITLE: Bob Mathias
Robert Bruce Mathias (November 17, 1930 – September 2, 2006) was an American decathlete, two-time Olympic gold medalist in the event, a United States Marine Corps officer, actor and United States Congressman representing the state of California.
Mathias was born in Tulare, California. He attended Tulare Union High School,[3] where he was a classmate and long time friend of Sim Iness, the 1952 Olympic discus gold medalist. While at Tulare Union in early 1948, Mathias took up the decathlon at the suggestion of his track coach, Virgil Jackson. During the summer following his high school graduation, he qualified for the United States Olympic team for the 1948 Summer Olympics held in London.
In the Olympics, Mathias's naïveté about the decathlon was exposed.[4] He was unaware of the rules in the shot put and nearly fouled out of the event. He almost failed in the high jump but was able to recover. Mathias overcame his difficulties and with superior pole vault and javelin scores was able to push past Ignace Heinrich to win the Olympic gold medal. At age 17, he became the youngest gold medalist in a track and field event.[1]
Mathias continued to fare well in decathlons in the four years between the London games and the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki.[1] In 1948, Mathias won the James E. Sullivan Award as the nation's top amateur athlete, but because his scholastic record in high school did not match his athletic achievement, he spent a year at The Kiski School,[3] a well-respected all-boys boarding school in Saltsburg, Pennsylvania. He then entered Stanford University in 1949, played college football for two years and was a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. Mathias set his first decathlon world record in 1950[2] and led Stanford to a Rose Bowl appearance in 1952, the first nationally televised college football game. After graduating from Stanford in 1953 with a BA in Education, Mathias spent two and a half years in the U.S. Marine Corps. He was promoted to the rank of captain and was honorably discharged.[5]
At Helsinki in 1952, Mathias established himself as one of the world's greatest all-around athletes. He won the decathlon by the astounding margin of 912 points, which established a new world record, and he became the first person to successfully defend an Olympic decathlon title.[6] He returned to the United States as a national hero. His 7,887 point total at the Helsinki Olympics remained the school record at Stanford for 63 years until it was broken in 2015 by a freshman, Harrison Williams.[7] In 1952, he was the first person to compete in an Olympics and a Rose Bowl the same year. After the 1952 Olympics, Mathias retired from athletic competition. He later became the first director of the United States Olympic Training Center, a post he held from 1977 to 1983.[5]
He and his wife Melba can be seen on the 29th April 1954 edition of You Bet Your Life.  During the discussion he mentions a forthcoming film in which the couple played themselves, called The Bob Mathias Story. He also starred in a number of mostly cameo-type roles in a variety of movies and TV shows throughout the 1950s. In the 1959–1960 television season, Mathias played Frank Dugan, with costars Keenan Wynn as Kodiak and Chet Allen as Slats, in the TV series The Troubleshooters, which focused 26 episodes on events at construction sites.[8] In 1960, he also appeared playing an athletic Theseus in an Italian "peplum," or sword-and-sandal, film: Minotaur, the Wild Beast of Crete.[9]
Between 1967 and 1975, Mathias served four terms in the United States House of Representatives as a Republican, representing the northern San Joaquin Valley of California.[3][5] (These were the same eight years in which Ronald Reagan served two terms as governor of California.) He defeated Harlan Hagen, the 14-year Democratic Party incumbent, by about 11% in the 1966 election. This was not too surprising because this area started to move away from its New Deal Democratic roots.
Mathias was re-elected three times without serious difficulty, but in 1974, his district was significantly redrawn in a mid-decade redistricting. His district was renumbered as the 17th District, and picked up a large chunk of Fresno while losing several rural areas. Mathias was narrowly defeated for re-election by John Hans Krebs, a member of the Fresno County Board of Supervisors. Mathias was one of several Republicans swept out in the wake of the Watergate scandal.
From June to August 1975, Mathias served as the deputy director of the Selective Service. Mathias also was involved in the unsuccessful 1976 presidential re-election campaign of Gerald Ford.
Bob Mathias was diagnosed with cancer in 1996, and died as a result in Fresno, California on September 2, 2006 at age 75. He is interred at Tulare Cemetery in Tulare, California. He was survived by wife Gwen, daughters Romel, Megan, Marissa, step daughter Alyse Alexander, son Reiner, brothers Eugene and Jim, and sister Patricia Guerrero.[5]
He qualified for the U.S. Olympic Team and went on to win gold medal in decathlon at the Summer Olympic Games in London, England.
After huge celebration and parade in Tulare, presented with "Key to the City" by Mayor Elmo Zumwalt. Enrolls at Kiskiminetas Prep School, Saltsburg, Pa. Honored with the James E. Sullivan Award, presented each year to America's top amateur athlete.
Enrolled at Stanford University, where he starred in track and field and in gridiron football.
Spent the summer at U.S. Marine Corps boot camp in San Diego, California.
Won the National Decathlon Championship and Olympic Trials at meet held in Tulare.[2]
Won the Olympic gold medal in the decathlon at Helsinki, Finland, setting a |world record.[2]
Entered active duty in the Marine Corps as a second lieutenant.
Acting career took off,  employed by John Wayne's Batjac Productions. Starred in the movie "China Doll", the TV series The Troubleshooters, the movie "Theseus and the Minotaur" and in the movie It Happened in Athens.  
Tulare high school stadium renamed in Mathias's honor.
Doctors discovered a cancerous tumor in Mathias's throat.

TITLE: Stanley Sheinbaum
Stanley K. Sheinbaum (June 12, 1920 – September 12, 2016) was an American peace and human rights activist.[1]
Sheinbaum was born on June 12, 1920,[2] in New York City. His father was in the leather goods business. The family lost its money during the Great Depression. While in high school, Sheinbaum took a job after school as a sewing machine operator.
Sheinbaum was drafted into the army during World War II and assigned to making aviation maps. When discharged, he applied to 33 colleges on the GI Bill, but was rejected due to his poor grades.[3] He returned to high school, and after graduating, was accepted at Oklahoma State University–Stillwater (Oklahoma A&M), where he excelled. After a year, he transferred to Stanford University and became an economics teacher.[3] He subsequently accepted a position at Michigan State University teaching economics.[4] While there, he became the administrator of a 54-person[4] project named Michigan State University Vietnam Advisory Group (MSUG) which advised the unstable government of South Vietnam on how to prevent Communism.[5] Sheinbaum eventually discovered that the university was providing cover for an ongoing Central Intelligence Agency operation. In 1959, he resigned from the project.
After leaving Michigan State University, Sheinbaum moved to Santa Barbara, California, and became part of a think tank headed by educational philosopher Robert Hutchins called the "Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions". There he met and fell in love with Betty Warner, daughter of film mogul Harry Warner, who was also an activist. They married in 1964.[6]
While doing research into America's involvement in Southeast Asia, journalist Robert Scheer discovered the MSUG project. He found documents providing evidence that MSUG had been involved in the torture of Vietnamese nationals.[3] Among the documents was a list of those involved with the project, including Sheinbaum, whom Scheer contacted. Appalled with the revelations, Sheinbaum went public with the information and became an active opponent of the Vietnam War. Because of his actions, he was dismissed from the think tank.
In 1966 and again in 1968, Sheinbaum ran for the United States Congress in Santa Barbara on a peace platform, but was unsuccessful both times.[6]
In 1971, Sheinbaum was asked to help organize the Daniel Ellsberg Pentagon Papers defense team.[3]
[4] He helped assemble the team of attorneys and became the main fundraiser and spokesperson, raising nearly one million dollars from over 25,000 contributors.[6]
Along with the Palestinian Intifada, Sheinbaum assembled a team of Jews to meet with Yasir Arafat to persuade him to disavow terrorism and recognize Israel's right to exist.[3][7] Anticipating that Arafat would question his credentials, Sheinbaum first held a meeting with then-National Security Advisor of the United States Colin Powell, explaining the situation. Five days later, Sheinbaum received a letter from President Ronald Reagan stating that if Arafat would fulfill his promises, the United States would "be responsive".[6]
Sheinbaum presented the Reagan letter to Arafat during their initial meeting, and an agreement was reached. Arafat intended to discuss the agreement in front of the United Nations, but then-Secretary of State George Shultz rejected Arafat's visa request. In response, the entire UN Assembly flew to Geneva, where Arafat spoke, stating his intentions.[8] The effort culminated in Yitzak Rabin and Arafat shaking hands at the White House in 1993 before President Clinton. Ultimately, Arafat did not fulfill his agreement, resulting in criticism of Sheinbaum.[6]
From 1991 to 1993, Sheinbaum served as President of the Los Angeles Board of Police Commissioners. He was highly critical of Chief Daryl Gates' response to the Rodney King beating. He believed the incident was not an isolated one, and led the effort, along with fellow commissioners, to force Gates from office.[3]
Sheinbaum served on the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) National Advisory Council.[3]
Sheinbaum died at his home in Brentwood on September 12, 2016. He was aged 96.[10]

TITLE: Joseph Bouchard
Joseph F. Bouchard (born July 17, 1954 in Pensacola, Florida)retired from the US Navy in 2003 as a Captain after 27 years on active duty.  He commanded the destroyer USS Oldendorf and Naval Station Norfolk, the world's largest naval base.
Dr. Bouchard was a specialist in strategic and operational planning, including assignments as Branch Head, Strategy and Concepts Branch, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations; Deputy Senior Director for Defense Policy and Arms Control, National Security Council, The White House; and Deputy Director, Navy Operations Group (Deep Blue), which was responsible for planning the Navy's role in the war on terror.  At the National Security Council, he was principal author of the National Security Strategy, 1997-1999.  He received numerous personal decorations, including the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the highest non-combat award in the US military.
Dr. Bouchard is widely recognized as an expert on national defense and homeland security, and has received several awards for his leadership in port security, including the Secretary of Defense 2002 Annual Antiterrorism Award, Secretary of Transportation 2002 Partnering for Excellence Award, Virginia Port Authority Medal of Excellence, and the Virginia Maritime Association Port Champion Award.
Dr. Bouchard graduated with distinction from the U.S. Naval Academy, where he majored in International Security Affairs and studied Chinese and Japanese.  He earned a Master of Arts degree in National Security Affairs from the U.S. Naval Postgraduate School and a Doctor of Philosophy in Political Science (international relations and strategic studies) from Stanford University. He also is a graduate of:
·U.S. Institute of Peace, International Conflict Resolution Skills Training Program, April 1995
·Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Seminar XXI Program on Foreign Politics, International Relations, and the National Interest, May 1996
·Maritime Institute of Technology and Graduate Studies, Port, Company and Ship Security Officer Program
Dr. Bouchard is the author of Command in Crisis and numerous articles on defense, naval and homeland security matters, and has won two awards for his naval history writings:
·Captain Hugh Nott Memorial Award for exceptional articles published in the Naval War College Review in 1988, for "Accidents and Crises: Panay, Liberty, and Stark," Naval War College Review, Vol. 41, No. 4, Autumn 1988, pp. 87 102.
·Rear Admiral Ernest M. Eller Prize in Naval History, 1999, best article on naval history.  Awarded jointly by the Naval Historical Center and Naval Historical Foundation for "Guarding the Cold War Ramparts: The U.S. Navy's Role in Continental Air Defense," Naval War College Review, Vol. 52, No. 3, Summer 1999.
Dr. Bouchard's US Navy assignments included:
February 2003 – September 2003:  Director, Navy Reconstitution Group, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, the Pentagon.  Additional responsibility as strategic analyst, Deep Blue (Naval Operations Group), Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, The Pentagon.  Deep Blue was responsible for planning the Navy's role in the war on terrorism.
February 2000 – January 2003: Commanding Officer, Naval Station Norfolk, Virginia; Program Manager, Regional Port Operations, Navy Region Mid-Atlantic; Chair, Port Operations Integrated Product Team (Navy-wide team sponsored by CNO's staff to enhance management and cost-effectiveness of port operations).
January 1997 – January 2000: Deputy Senior Director for Arms Control and Defense Policy, Director for Defense Policy, National Security Council, the White House.
March 1995 – February 1997: Branch Head, Strategy and Concepts Branch (N513), Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, the Pentagon.
April 1993 – February 1995: Commanding Officer, USS Oldendorf (DD 972), home ported in San Diego, California.  Deployed to the Persian Gulf and Western Pacific, January–July 1994.  Earned several awards for operational excellence and the “Golden Anchor” award for excellence in personnel management and retention.
May 1990 – July 1992: Special Assistant and Deputy Executive Assistant to Commander in Chief, Allied Forces Southern Europe and Commander in Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe.
September 1988 – April 1990: Executive Officer, USS Paul F. Foster (DD 964), home ported in Long Beach, California.
November 1985 – September 1987: Commander, Destroyer Squadron Twenty One Staff, homeported in San Diego, California.  Material Officer, ASW Commander Watch Officer.
April 1984 – October 1985: USS O'Brien (DD 975), home ported in San Diego, California.  Engineering Officer, Tactical Action Officer.
February 1977 – February 1980: USS Lockwood (FF 1064), home ported in Yokosuka, Japan.  Anti Submarine Warfare Officer and Nuclear Weapons Officer.
Dr. Bouchard won numerous awards while on active duty:
·Authorized to wear the Presidential Service Badge
·Designated Joint Staff Officer
·Sub-specialist in Politico-Military Strategic Planning, National Security Affairs – Far East, Southeast Asia and Pacific, and National Security Affairs – Western Europe
·Awarded Defense Distinguished Service Medal (the highest non-combat award in the Armed Services), Legion of Merit (three awards), Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal (two awards), Navy Commendation Medal (three awards), Meritorious Unit Commendation (two awards), National Defense Medal (three awards), Southwest Asia Service Medal, Humanitarian Service Medal, Sea Service Ribbon (six awards), and Overseas Service Ribbon (two awards).
·Awarded Junior Officer Shiphandling Award in 1980
He has received a number of other personal awards as well:
·Virginia General Assembly, Resolution of Appreciation, 2001, for care and services provided to the crew and families of USS COLE after it was attacked in October 2000
·Commonwealth of Virginia Board of Education, Resolution of Appreciation for membership in the Leadership Development Committee, August 27, 2001
·Hampton Roads Maritime Association, 2002 Port Champion Award, April 3, 2002
·Secretary of Defense 2002 Annual Antiterrorism Award, Best Antiterrorism/Force Protection Innovation or Action, First Honorable Mention, for Port Security in Hampton Roads
·U.S. Secretary of Transportation, 2002 Partnering for Excellence Award for Port Security in Hampton Roads, January 2003
·Hampton Roads Maritime Association, Resolution of Appreciation, January 16, 2003
·Virginia Port Authority, Medal of Excellence, February 28, 2003
Dr. Bouchard is heavily involved in state, regional and local activities in the areas of national security, adaptation to sea level rise and economic development.  He has served on the Secure and Resilient Commonwealth Panel, which advises the governor on homeland security and emergency preparedness, since 2007. He serves on the Board of Directors of the Virginia Maritime Association and is a member of the Advisory Committee for the Maritime Institute at Old Dominion University.  He has made scores of presentations at international, national and regional conferences, and is a frequent commentator on radio and television on naval matters, national security and sea level rise.
Dr. Bouchard also is recognized as an expert on the economic and national security aspects of environmental and climate change policy.  He served on the Virginia Beach Alternative Energy Task Force, 2009–2010, and in 2008 served on the Governor's Commission on Climate Change and chaired its Adaptation Working Group. He founded the Hampton Roads Sea Level Rise Preparedness and Resilience Intergovernmental Planning Pilot Project, April 2014 – July 2016, drafting the charter for the Pilot Project, including its mission, organizational structure, deliverables and timeline, assisting with planning of Pilot Project events, and assisting with identifying persons to serve on the various working groups and advisory committees.
While representing Virginia Beach in the Virginia House of Delegates in 2008-2009, Dr. Bouchard served on the Finance Committee, Science and Technology Committee, and the Agriculture, Chesapeake and Natural Resources Committee.  He was the only member of the General Assembly who had commanded a military base in Virginia.
Dr. Bouchard is the Senior Judge Advisor for FIRST Tech Challenge in Virginia and a Judge and Judge Advisor the FIRST Robotics Competition Chesapeake Division.  He has been involved with FIRST for over ten years.

TITLE: Larry Page
Lawrence Edward Page[3] (born March 26, 1973) is an American computer scientist and Internet entrepreneur. He is best known as one of the co-founders of Google along with Sergey Brin.[1][4]
Page was the chief executive officer of Alphabet Inc. (Google's parent company) until stepping down on December 3, 2019. After stepping aside as Google CEO in August 2001 in favor of Eric Schmidt, he re-assumed the role in April 2011. He announced his intention to step aside a second time in July 2015 to become CEO of Alphabet, under which Google's assets would be reorganized. Under Page, Alphabet sought to deliver major advancements in a variety of industries.[5] On December 4, 2019, Page stepped down from his CEO position from Alphabet. Both Page and Sergey Brin remain at Alphabet as co-founders, board members, employees, and controlling shareholders.[6]
Forbes placed him 10th in the list "Billionaires 2019".[7] As of March 2020, Page is the 11th-richest person in the world, with a net worth of $53.6 billion, according to Forbes.[1]
Page is the co-inventor of PageRank, a well-known search ranking algorithm for Google, which he wrote with Brin.[15] Page received the Marconi Prize in 2004 with Brin.[16]
Page was born on March 26, 1973,[17] in Lansing, Michigan.[18][19] His mother is Jewish;[20] his maternal grandfather later made aliyah to Israel.[19] However, he does not declare to follow any formal religion.[20][21] His father, Carl Victor Page Sr., earned a PhD in computer science from the University of Michigan, when the field was being established, and BBC reporter Will Smale has described him as a "pioneer in computer science and artificial intelligence".[22] He was a computer science professor at Michigan State University and Page's mother, Gloria, was an instructor in computer programming at Lyman Briggs College of Michigan State University.[23][22][24]
During an interview, Page recalled his childhood. Noting that his house "was usually a mess, with computers, science, and technology magazines and Popular Science magazines all over the place", an environment in which he immersed himself.[25] Page was an avid reader during his youth, writing in his 2013 Google founders letter: "I remember spending a huge amount of time pouring [sic] over books and magazines" .[26] According to writer Nicholas Carlson, the combined influence of Page's home atmosphere and his attentive parents "fostered creativity and invention". Page also played the flute and studied music composition while growing up. He attended the renowned music summer camp —  Interlochen Arts Camp at Interlochen, Michigan. Page has mentioned that his musical education inspired his impatience and obsession with speed in computing. "In some sense, I feel like music training led to the high-speed legacy of Google for me". In an interview Page said that "In music, you're very cognizant of time. Time is like the primary thing" and that "If you think about it from a music point of view, if you're a percussionist, you hit something, it's got to happen in milliseconds, fractions of a second".[8][27]
Page was first attracted to computers when he was six years old, as he was able to "play with the stuff lying around"—first-generation personal computers—that had been left by his mother and father.[23] He became the "first kid in his elementary school to turn in an assignment from a word processor".[28] His older brother also taught him to take things apart and before long he was taking "everything in his house apart to see how it worked". He said that "from a very early age, I also realized I wanted to invent things. So I became really interested in technology and business. Probably from when I was 12, I knew I was going to start a company eventually."[28]
Page attended the Okemos Montessori School (now called Montessori Radmoor) in Okemos, Michigan, from 1975 to 1979, and graduated from East Lansing High School in 1991. He attended Interlochen Center for the Arts as a saxophonist for two summers while in high school. Page holds a Bachelor of Science in computer engineering from the University of Michigan, with honors and a Master of Science in computer science from Stanford University.[29] While at the University of Michigan, Page created an inkjet printer made of Lego bricks (literally a line plotter), after he thought it possible to print large posters cheaply with the use of inkjet cartridges—Page reverse-engineered the ink cartridge, and built all of the electronics and mechanics to drive it.[23] Page served as the president of the Beta Epsilon chapter of the Eta Kappa Nu fraternity,[30] and was a member of the 1993 "Maize & Blue" University of Michigan Solar Car team.[31] As an undergraduate at the University of Michigan, he proposed that the school replace its bus system with a personal rapid transit system, which is essentially a driverless monorail with separate cars for every passenger.[8] He also developed a business plan for a company that would use software to build a music synthesizer during this time.[27]
After enrolling in a computer science PhD program at Stanford University, Page was in search of a dissertation theme and considered exploring the mathematical properties of the World Wide Web, understanding its link structure as a huge graph. His supervisor, Terry Winograd, encouraged him to pursue the idea, and Page recalled in 2008 that it was the best advice he had ever received.[32] He also considered doing research on telepresence and self-driving cars during this time.[33][34][35][36]
Page focused on the problem of finding out which web pages linked to a given page, considering the number and nature of such backlinks as valuable information for that page. The role of citations in academic publishing would also become pertinent for the research.[36] Sergey Brin, a fellow Stanford PhD student, would soon join Page's research project, nicknamed "BackRub."[36] Together, the pair authored a research paper titled "The Anatomy of a Large-Scale Hypertextual Web Search Engine" , which became one of the most downloaded scientific documents in the history of the Internet at the time.[23][34]
John Battelle, co-founder of Wired magazine, wrote that Page had reasoned that the:
... entire Web was loosely based on the premise of citation—after all, what is a link but a citation? If he could devise a method to count and qualify each backlink on the Web, as Page puts it "the Web would become a more valuable place."[36]Battelle further described how Page and Brin began working together on the project:
At the time Page conceived of BackRub, the Web comprised an estimated 10 million documents, with an untold number of links between them. The computing resources required to crawl such a beast were well beyond the usual bounds of a student project. Unaware of exactly what he was getting into, Page began building out his crawler. The idea's complexity and scale lured Brin to the job. A polymath who had jumped from project to project without settling on a thesis topic, he found the premise behind BackRub fascinating. "I talked to lots of research groups" around the school, Brin recalls, "and this was the most exciting project, both because it tackled the Web, which represents human knowledge, and because I liked Larry."[36]To convert the backlink data gathered by BackRub's web crawler into a measure of importance for a given web page, Brin and Page developed the PageRank algorithm, and realized that it could be used to build a search engine far superior to existing ones.[36] The algorithm relied on a new technology that analyzed the relevance of the backlinks that connected one web page to another.[37]
Combining their ideas, the pair began utilizing Page's dormitory room as a machine laboratory, and extracted spare parts from inexpensive computers to create a device that they used to connect the now nascent search engine with Stanford's broadband campus network.[36] After filling Page's room with equipment, they then converted Brin's dorm room into an office and programming center, where they tested their new search engine designs on the Web. The rapid growth of their project caused Stanford's computing infrastructure to experience problems.[38]
Page and Brin used the former's basic HTML programming skills to set up a simple search page for users, as they did not have a web page developer to create anything visually elaborate. They also began using any computer part they could find to assemble the necessary computing power to handle searches by multiple users. As their search engine grew in popularity among Stanford users, it required additional servers to process the queries. In August 1996, the initial version of Google, still on the Stanford University website, was made available to Internet users.[36]
By early 1997, the BackRub page described the state as follows:
Some Rough Statistics (from August 29, 1996)
Total indexable HTML URLs: 75.2306 Million
Total content downloaded: 207.022 gigabytes
...

BackRub is written in Java and Python and runs on several Sun Ultras and Intel Pentiums running Linux. The primary database is kept on a Sun Ultra series II with 28GB of disk. Scott Hassan and Alan Steremberg have provided a great deal of very talented implementation help. Sergey Brin has also been very involved and deserves many thanks.BackRub already exhibited the rudimentary functions and characteristics of a search engine: a query input was entered and it provided a list of backlinks ranked by importance. Page recalled: "We realized that we had a querying tool. It gave you a good overall ranking of pages and ordering of follow-up pages."[40] Page said that in mid-1998 they finally realized the further potential of their project: "Pretty soon, we had 10,000 searches a day. And we figured, maybe this is really real."[38]
Page and Brin's vision has been compared to that of Johannes Gutenberg, the inventor of modern printing:[41]
In 1440, Johannes Gutenberg introduced Europe to the mechanical printing press, printing Bibles for mass consumption. The technology allowed for books and manuscripts – originally replicated by hand – to be printed at a much faster rate, thus spreading knowledge and helping to usher in the European Renaissance ... Google has done a similar job.The comparison was also noted by the authors of The Google Story: "Not since Gutenberg ... has any new invention empowered individuals, and transformed access to information, as profoundly as Google."[42] Also, not long after the two "cooked up their new engine for web searches, they began thinking about information that was at the time beyond the web" such as digitizing books and expanding health information.[38]

Mark Malseed wrote in a 2003 feature story:Soliciting funds from faculty members, family and friends, Brin and Page scraped together enough to buy some servers and rent that famous garage in Menlo Park. ... [soon after], Sun Microsystems co-founder Andy Bechtolsheim wrote a $100,000 check to "Google, Inc." The only problem was, "Google, Inc." did not yet exist—the company hadn't yet been incorporated. For two weeks, as they handled the paperwork, the young men had nowhere to deposit the money.[43]In 1998,[44] Brin and Page incorporated Google, Inc.[45] with the initial domain name of "Googol", derived from a number that consists of one followed by one hundred zeros—representing the vast amount of data that the search engine was intended to explore. Following inception, Page appointed himself as CEO, while Brin, named Google's co-founder, served as Google's president.[8] Writer Nicholas Carlson wrote in 2014:The pair's mission was "to organize the world's information and make it universally accessible and useful."[46] With a US$1-million loan from friends and family, the inaugural team moved into a Mountain View office by the start of 2000. In 1999, Page experimented with smaller servers so Google could fit more into each square meter of the third-party warehouses the company rented for their servers. This eventually led to a search engine that ran much faster than Google's competitors at the time.[8]By June 2000, Google had indexed one billion Internet URLs (Uniform Resource Locators), making it the most comprehensive search engine on the Web at the time. The company cited NEC Research Institute data in its June 26 press release, stating that "there are more than 1 billion web pages online today", with Google "providing access to 560 million full-text indexed web pages and 500 million partially indexed URLs."[47]
During his first tenure as CEO, Page embarked on an attempt to fire all of Google's project managers in 2001. Page's plan involved all of Google's engineers reporting to a VP of engineering, who would then report directly to him—Page explained that he didn't like non-engineers supervising engineers due to their limited technical knowledge.[8] Page even documented his management tenets for his team to use as a reference:
Even though Page's new model was unsustainable and led to disgruntlement among the affected employees, his issue with engineers being managed by non-engineering staff gained traction. [48]Page also believed that the faster Google's search engine returned answers, the more it would be used. He fretted over milliseconds and pushed his engineers—from those who developed algorithms to those who built data centers—to think about lag times. He also pushed for keeping Google's home page famously sparse in its design because it would help the search results load faster.[27]
Before Silicon Valley's two most prominent investors, Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital, agreed to invest a combined total of $50 million in Google, they applied pressure on Page to step down as CEO so that a more experienced leader could build a "world-class management team." Page eventually became amenable to the idea after meeting with other technology CEOs, including Steve Jobs and Intel's Andrew Grove. Eric Schmidt, who had been hired as Chairman of Google in March 2001, left his full-time position as the CEO of Novell to take the same role at Google in August of the same year, and Page moved aside to assume the President of Products role.[8]
Under Schmidt's leadership, Google underwent a period of major growth and expansion, which included its initial public offering (IPO) on August 20, 2004. He always acted in consultation with Page and Brin when he embarked on initiatives such as the hiring of an executive team and the creation of a sales force management system. Page remained the boss at Google in the eyes of the employees, as he gave final approval on all new hires, and it was Page who provided the signature for the IPO, the latter making him a billionaire at the age of 30.[8]
Page led the acquisition of Android for $50 million in 2005 to fulfill his ambition to place handheld computers in the possession of consumers so that they could access Google anywhere. The purchase was made without Schmidt's knowledge, but the CEO was not perturbed by the relatively small acquisition. Page became passionate about Android and spent large amounts of time with Android CEO and cofounder Andy Rubin. By September 2008, T-Mobile launched the G1, the first phone using Android software and, by 2010, 17.2% of the handset market consisted of Android sales, overtaking Apple for the first time. Android became the world's most popular mobile operating system shortly afterward.[8]
Following a January 2011 announcement,[49] Page officially became the chief executive of Google on April 4, 2011, while Schmidt stepped down to become executive chairman.[50] By this time, Google had over $180 billion market capitalization and more than 24,000 employees.[51]
After Schmidt announced the end of his tenure as CEO on January 20, 2011, he jokingly tweeted on Twitter: "Adult-supervision no longer needed." Quartz organizational management reporter, Max Nisen, described the decade prior to Page's second appointment as Google's CEO as his "lost decade." While Page continued to exert a significant influence at Google during this time, overseeing product development and other operations, he became increasingly disconnected and less responsive over time.[8][48]
As Google's new CEO, Page's two key goals were the development of greater autonomy for the executives overseeing the most important divisions, and higher levels of collaboration, communication, and unity among the teams. Page also formed what the media called the "L-Team", a group of senior vice-presidents who reported directly to him and worked in close proximity to his office for a portion of the working week.[52] Additionally, he reorganized the company's senior management, placing a CEO-like manager at the top of Google's most important product divisions, including YouTube, AdWords, and Google Search.[8]
In accordance with a more cohesive team environment, Page declared a new "zero tolerance for fighting" policy that contrasted with his approach during the early days of Google, when he would use his harsh and intense arguments with Brin as an exemplar for senior management. Page had changed his thinking during his time away from the CEO role, as he eventually arrived at the conclusion that his greatly ambitious goals required a harmonious team dynamic. As part of Page's collaborative rejuvenation process, Google's products and applications were consolidated and underwent an aesthetic overhaul.[48][53]
At least 70 of Google's products, features and services were eventually shut down by March 2013, while the appearance and nature of the remaining ones were unified.[54][55] Jon Wiley, lead designer of Google Search at the time, codenamed Page's redesign overhaul, which officially commenced on April 4, 2011, "Project Kennedy", based on Page's use of the term "moonshots" to describe ambitious projects in a January 2013 Wired interview.[53][56] An initiative named "Kanna" previously attempted to create a uniform design aesthetic for Google's range of products, but it was too difficult at that point in the company's history for one team to drive such change. Matias Duarte, senior director of the Android user experience when "Kennedy" started, explained in 2013 that "Google passionately cares about design." Page proceeded to consult with the Google Creative Lab design team, based in New York City, to find an answer to his question of what a "cohesive vision" of Google might look like.[53]
The eventual results of "Kennedy" which were progressively rolled out from June 2011 until January 2013, were described by The Verge technology publication as focused upon "refinement, white space, cleanliness, elasticity, usefulness, and most of all simplicity."  The final products were aligned with Page's aim for a consistent suite of products that can "move fast",  and "Kennedy" was called a "design revolution" by Duarte. Page's "UXA" (user/graphics interface) design team then emerged from the "Kennedy" project, tasked with "designing and developing a true UI framework that transforms Google's application software into a beautiful, mature, accessible and consistent platform for its users." Unspoken of in public, the small UXA unit was designed to ensure that "Kennedy" became an "institution."[53]
When acquiring products and companies for Google, Page asked whether the business acquisition passed the toothbrush test as an initial qualifier, asking the question "Is it something you will use once or twice a day, and does it make your life better?". This approach looked for usefulness above profitability, and long-term potential over near-term financial gain, which has been noted as rare in business acquiring processes.[57][58][59]
With Facebook's influence rapidly expanding during the start of Page's second tenure, he finally responded to the intensive competition with Google's own social network, Google+, in mid-2011. After several delays, the social network was released through a very limited field test and was led by Vic Gundotra, Google's then senior vice president of social.[60]
In August 2011, Page announced that Google would spend $12.5 billion to acquire Motorola Mobility.[61] The purchase was primarily motivated by Google's need to secure patents to protect Android from lawsuits by companies including Apple Inc.[8] Page wrote on Google's official blog on August 15, 2011 that "companies including Microsoft and Apple are banding together in anti-competitive patent attacks on Android. The United States Department of Justice had to intervene in the results of one recent patent auction to 'protect competition and innovation in the open source software community' ... Our acquisition of Motorola will increase competition by strengthening Google's patent portfolio, which will enable us to better protect Android from anti-competitive threats from Microsoft, Apple and other companies".[62][63] In 2014, Page sold Motorola Mobility for $2.9 billion to Personal Computer maker, Lenovo which represented a loss in value of $9.5 billion over two years.[64]
Page also ventured into hardware and Google unveiled the Chromebook in May 2012. The hardware product was a laptop that ran on a Google operating system, Chrome OS.[65]

In January 2013, Page participated in a rare interview with Wired, in which writer Steven Levy discussed Page's "10X" mentality—Google employees are expected to create products and services that are at least 10 times better than those of its competitors—in the introductory blurb. Astro Teller, the head of Google X, explained to Levy that 10X is "just core to who he [Page] is", while Page's "focus is on where the next 10X will come from."[56] In his interview with Levy, Page referred to the success of YouTube and Android as examples of "crazy" ideas that investors were not initially interested in, saying: "If you're not doing some things that are crazy, then you're doing the wrong things."[56] Page also stated he was "very happy" with the status of Google+, and discussed concerns over the Internet in relation to the SOPA bill and an International Telecommunication Union proposal that had been recently introduced:... I do think the Internet's under much greater attack than it has been in the past. Governments are now afraid of the Internet because of the Middle East stuff, and so they're a little more willing to listen to what I see as a lot of commercial interests that just want to make money by restricting people's freedoms. But they've also seen a tremendous user reaction, like the backlash against SOPA. I think that governments fight users' freedoms at their own peril.[56]At the May 2013 I/O developers conference in San Francisco, Page delivered a keynote address and said "We're at maybe 1% of what is possible. Despite the faster change, we're still moving slow relative to the opportunities we have. I think a lot of that is because of the negativity ... Every story I read is Google vs someone else. That's boring. We should be focusing on building the things that don't exist" and that he was "sad the Web isn't advancing as fast as it should be", citing a perceived focus on negativity and zero-sum games among some in the technology sector as a cause.[66] In response to an audience question, Page noted an issue that Google had been experiencing with Microsoft, whereby the latter made its Outlook program interoperable with Google but did not allow for backward compatibility—he referred to Microsoft's practice as "milking off". During the question-and-answer section of his keynote, Page expressed interest in Burning Man, which Brin had previously praised—it was a motivating factor for the latter during Schmidt's hiring process, as Brin liked that Schmidt had attended the week-long annual event.[8][67][68]
In September 2013, Page launched the independent Calico initiative, a R&D project in the field of biotechnology. Google announced that Calico seeks to innovate and make improvements in the field of human health, and appointed Art Levinson, chairman of Apple's board and former CEO of Genentech, to be the new division's CEO. Page's official statement read: "Illness and aging affect all our families. With some longer term, moonshot thinking around healthcare and biotechnology, I believe we can improve millions of lives."[69]
Page participated in a March 2014 TedX conference that was held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. The presentation was scripted by Page's chief PR executive Rachel Whetstone, and Google's CMO Lorraine Twohill, and a demonstration of an artificially intelligent computer program was displayed on a large screen.[8]

Page responded to a question about corporations, noting that corporations largely get a "bad rap", which he stated was because they were probably doing the same incremental things they were doing "50 or 20 years ago". He went on to juxtapose that kind of incremental approach to his vision of Google counteracting calcification through driving technology innovation at a high rate. Page mentioned Elon Musk and SpaceX:He [Musk] wants to go to Mars to back up humanity. That's a worthy goal. We have a lot of employees at Google who've become pretty wealthy. You're working because you want to change the world and make it better ... I'd like for us to help out more than we are.[70]Page also mentioned Nikola Tesla with regard to invention and commercialization:Invention is not enough. [Nikola] Tesla invented the electric power we use, but he struggled to get it out to people. [You have to] combine both things ... invention and innovation focus, plus ... a company that can really commercialize things and get them to people.[71]Page announced a major management restructure in October 2014 so that he would no longer need to be responsible for day-to-day product-related decision making. In a memo, Page said that Google's core businesses would be able to progress in a typical manner, while he could focus on the next generation of ambitious projects, including Google X initiatives; access and energy, including Google Fiber; smart-home automation through Nest Labs; and biotechnology innovations under Calico.[72] Page maintained that he would continue as the unofficial "chief product officer".[55] Subsequent to the announcement, the executives in charge of Google's core products reported to then Google Senior Vice President Sundar Pichai, who reported directly to Page.[72][73][74][75]
In a November 2014 interview, Page stated that he prioritized the maintenance of his "deep knowledge" of Google's products and breadth of projects, as it had been a key motivating factor for team members. In relation to his then role as the company's CEO, Page said: "I think my job as CEO—I feel like it's always to be pushing people ahead."[55]

On August 10, 2015, Page announced on Google's official blog that Google had restructured into a number of subsidiaries of a new holding company known as Alphabet Inc with Page becoming CEO of Alphabet Inc and Sundar Pichai assuming the position of CEO of Google Inc. In his announcement, Page described the planned holding company as follows:[76]Alphabet is mostly a collection of companies. The largest of which, of course, is Google. This newer Google is a bit slimmed down, with the companies that are pretty far afield of our main Internet products contained in Alphabet instead. ... Fundamentally, we believe this allows us more management scale, as we can run things independently that aren't very related.As well as explaining the origin of the company's name:We liked the name Alphabet because it means a collection of letters that represent language, one of humanity's most important innovations, and is the core of how we index with Google search! We also like that it means alpha‑bet (Alpha is investment return above benchmark), which we strive for!Page wrote that the motivation behind the reorganization is to make Google "cleaner and more accountable."  He also wrote that there was a desire to improve "the transparency and oversight of what we're doing" and to allow greater control of unrelated companies previously within the Google ecosystem.[76][77][78]
Page has not been on any press conferences since 2015 and has not presented at product launches or earnings calls since 2013. The Bloomberg Businessweek termed the reorganization into Alphabet as a clever retirement plan allowing Page to retain control over Google, at the same time relinquishing all responsibilities over it. Executives at Alphabet describe Page as a "futurist" , highly detached from day-to-day business dealings and more focused on moon-shot projects. While some managers of Alphabet companies speak of Page as intensely involved, others say that his rare office check-ins are "akin to a royal visit" .[79]
On December 3, 2019, Larry Page announced that he will step down from the position of Alphabet CEO and would be replaced by Google CEO Sundar Pichai. Pichai will also continue as Google CEO. Page and Google co-founder and Alphabet president Sergey Brin announced the change in a joint blog post, "With Alphabet now well-established, and Google and the Other Bets operating effectively as independent companies, it’s the natural time to simplify our management structure. We’ve never been ones to hold on to management roles when we think there’s a better way to run the company. And Alphabet and Google no longer need two CEOs and a President."[80]
Page is an investor in Tesla Motors.[81] He has invested in renewable energy technology, and with the help of Google.org, Google's philanthropic arm, promotes the adoption of plug-in hybrid electric cars[82][83][84][85] and other alternative energy investments.[86] He is also a strategic backer in the Opener startup which is developing aerial vehicles for consumer travel.[87]
Page is also interested in the socio-economic effects of advanced intelligent systems and how advanced digital technologies can be used to create abundance (as described in Peter Diamandis' book), provide for people's needs, shorten the workweek, and mitigate the potential detrimental effects of technological unemployment.[88][89]
Page also helped to set up Singularity University, a transhumanist think-tank.[90] 
Google is one of the institution's corporate founders[91] and still funds scholarships at Singularity University.[92]
In 2007, Page married Lucinda Southworth on Necker Island, the Caribbean island owned by Richard Branson.[93] Southworth is a research scientist and the sister of actress and model Carrie Southworth.[94] Page and Southworth have two children, born in 2009 and 2011.[95][96]

On February 18, 2005, Page bought a 9,000 square feet (840 m2) Spanish Colonial Revival architecture house in Palo Alto, California designed by American artistic polymath Pedro Joseph de Lemos, a former curator of the Stanford Art Museum and founder of the Carmel Art Institute, after the historic building had been on the market for years with an asking price of US$7.95 million. A two-story stucco archway spans the driveway and the home features intricate stucco work, as well as stone and tile in California Arts and Crafts movement style built to resemble de Lemos's family's castle in Spain. The hacienda was constructed between 1931 and 1941 by de Lemos.[97][98][99][100][101] It is also on the National Register of Historic Places.[102]In 2009 Page began purchasing properties and tearing down homes adjacent to his home in Palo Alto to make room for a large ecohouse. The existing buildings were "deconstructed"  and the materials donated for reuse. The ecohouse was designed to "minimize the impact on the environment."  Page worked with an arborist to replace some trees that were in poor health with others that used less water to maintain. Page also applied for Green Point Certification, with points given for use of recycled and low or no-VOC (volatile organic compound) materials and for a roof garden with solar panels. The house's exterior features zinc cladding and plenty of windows, including a wall of sliding-glass doors in the rear. It includes eco-friendly elements such as permeable paving in the parking court and a pervious path through the trees on the property. The 6,000-square-foot (560m²) house also observes other green home design features such as organic architecture building materials and low volatile organic compound paint.[103][104][105][106]
In 2011, Page bought the $45-million 193-foot (59m) superyacht 'Senses'. 'Senses' has extensive ocean exploration capabilities, the superyacht was created to explore the world's oceans in comfort and it carries a comprehensive inventory of equipment for that purpose.[107] 'Senses' was built by Fr. Schweers Shipyard in (Germany) at their Berne shipyard. 'Senses' features a displacement steel hull and a steel/aluminium superstructure, with teak decks. 'Senses' is equipped with an ultra-modern stabilization system which reduces the free surface effect and results in a smoother cruising experience underway.[108]
Page announced on his Google+ profile in May 2013 that his right vocal cord is paralyzed from a cold that he contracted the previous summer, while his left cord was paralyzed in 1999.[109] Page explained that he has been suffering from a vocal cord issue for 14 years, and, as of his May 2013 post, doctors were unable to identify the exact cause. The Google+ post also revealed that Page had donated a considerable sum of money to a vocal-cord nerve-function research program at the Voice Health Institute in Boston, US. The program, at Massachusetts General Hospital, is led by Steven Zeitels, the Eugene B. Casey Professor of Laryngeal Surgery. An anonymous source stated that the donation exceeded $20 million.[110]
In October 2013, Business Insider reported that Page's paralyzed vocal cords are caused by an autoimmune disease called Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and prevented him from undertaking Google quarterly earnings conference calls for an indefinite period.[111]
In November 2014, Page's family foundation, the Carl Victor Page Memorial Fund, reportedly holding assets in excess of a billion dollars at the end of 2013, gave $15 million to aid the effort against the Ebola virus epidemic in West Africa. Page wrote on his Google+ page that "My wife and I just donated $15 million ... Our hearts go out to everyone affected." [112][113][114][115]

TITLE: Alex Tizon
 Tomas Alexander Asuncion Tizon (October 30, 1959 – March 23, 2017) was a Filipino-American author and Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist.[4] His book Big Little Man, a memoir and cultural history, explores themes related to race, masculinity, and personal identity.[5] Tizon taught at the University of Oregon School of Journalism and Communication.[6] His final story, titled "My Family's Slave", was published as the cover story of the June 2017 issue of The Atlantic after his death, sparking significant debate.[7]
Tizon was born Tomas Alexander Asuncion Tizon in Manila, Philippines on October 30, 1959, the second of five[8] children. He immigrated with his family in 1964, shortly before the first big wave of Asian immigration to the United States in the postwar era. His childhood was marked by financial hardship and frequent long-distance moves. Through twelve grades, he attended eight schools from Honolulu to New York City. He earned degrees from the University of Oregon and Stanford University.[6] In 1997, Tizon won the Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting. Towards the end of his life, he wrote a piece in The Atlantic about Eudocia Tomas Pulido, a Filipina peasant woman who was his family's slave. This woman helped to raise Tizon's mother, all of her children and Tizon's daughters.[7][9]
As a reporter for The Seattle Times, he and two colleagues won the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting for a five-part series about fraud and mismanagement in the Federal Indian Housing Program.[10]
After the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Tizon and photographer Alan Berner drove from Seattle to Ground Zero in New York City, chronicling their journey with a multi-part series called "Crossing America – Dispatches From a New Nation," which explored the changes brought about by the attacks.[11] In 2002, he and Berner made another trip to Ground Zero, this time taking a southern route, and produced the series, "Crossing America – One Year Later."[12]
Tizon was Seattle Bureau Chief for the Los Angeles Times from 2003 to 2008.[6] He was a Knight International Journalism Fellow based in Manila in 2009 and 2010.[13]
He expanded upon his journalistic themes—exiles, immigrants, social outcasts, people searching for identity or purpose—in a personal way in his book Big Little Man: In Search of My Asian Self. Tizon told his own story as a first-generation immigrant and an Asian male growing up in the United States to examine cultural mythologies related to race and gender, in particular the Western stereotypes of Asian men and women.[5] The book won the 2011 J. Anthony Lukas Book Prize Work-In-Progress Award, sponsored by Columbia University and the Nieman Foundation at Harvard.[14]
Tizon was found dead in his home in Eugene, Oregon, on March 23, 2017. He was 57. His death appeared to be the result of natural causes.[15]
The last story Tizon wrote was an article for The Atlantic titled "My Family's Slave" in which he described how his parents had kept a peasant woman named Eudocia Tomas Pulido as a household slave, even after emigrating to the U.S. from the Philippines. He died the day that The Atlantic's editorial staff decided the article would be featured on the magazine's front cover, but before they could tell him of their decision.[16]

TITLE: Patricia Lantz
Patricia T. Lantz, commonly known as Pat Lantz, was a Democratic member of the Washington House of Representatives from January 1997 to January 2009, representing the 26th district. She served as Chair of the House Judiciary Committee. She did not seek re-election in 2008 and was succeeded by Jan Angel, a Republican.


TITLE: Sam Harris
Samuel Benjamin Harris (born April 9, 1967) is an American author, philosopher, neuroscientist, and podcast host.  His work touches on a wide range of topics, including rationality, religion, ethics, free will, neuroscience, meditation, philosophy of mind, politics, terrorism, and artificial intelligence. Harris came to prominence for his criticism of religion, and Islam in particular, and is described as one of the "Four Horsemen of Atheism", along with Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, and Daniel Dennett.[3][4] His academic background is in philosophy and cognitive neuroscience.[5]
Harris's first book, The End of Faith (2004), won the PEN/Martha Albrand Award for First Nonfiction[6] and remained on The New York Times Best Seller list for 33 weeks.[7] Harris has subsequently published six other books: Letter to a Christian Nation in 2006, The Moral Landscape: How Science Could Determine Human Values in 2010, the long-form essay Lying in 2011, the short book Free Will in 2012, Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion in 2014, and, with British writer Maajid Nawaz, Islam and the Future of Tolerance: A Dialogue in 2015. Harris' work has been translated into over 20 languages.[8]
Since September 2013, Harris has hosted the Making Sense podcast (originally titled Waking Up), in which he interviews guests, responds to critics, and discusses his views. In September 2018 Harris released a meditation app, Waking Up with Sam Harris.[9]
Harris was born on April 9, 1967 in Los Angeles.[10] He is the son of actor Berkeley Harris, who appeared mainly in Western films, and TV producer Susan Harris (née Spivak), who created The Golden Girls among other series.[11] His father, born in North Carolina, came from a Quaker background, and his mother is Jewish but not religious.[12] He was raised by his mother following his parents' divorce when he was aged two.[13] Harris has stated that his upbringing was entirely secular and that his parents rarely discussed religion, though he also stated that he was not raised as an atheist.[14]
While his original major was in English, Harris became interested in philosophical questions while at Stanford University after an experience with the empathogen–entactogen MDMA.[15][16][17] The experience led him to be interested in the idea that he might be able to achieve spiritual insights without the use of drugs.[18] Leaving Stanford in his second year, a quarter after his psychedelic experience, he went to India and Nepal, where he studied meditation with teachers of Buddhist and Hindu religions,[18][19] including Dilgo Khyentse.[20] Eleven years later, in 1997, he returned to Stanford, completing a B.A. degree in philosophy in 2000.[21][22][23]  Harris began writing his first book, The End of Faith, immediately after the September 11 attacks.[21]
He received a Ph.D. degree in cognitive neuroscience in 2009 from the University of California, Los Angeles,[21][24][25] using functional magnetic resonance imaging to conduct research into the neural basis of belief, disbelief, and uncertainty.[21][25] His thesis was titled The Moral Landscape: How Science Could Determine Human Values, and his advisor was Mark S. Cohen.[26]
Harris's writing focuses on philosophy, neuroscience, and criticism of religion, for which he is best known, and he has written for a variety of outlets.
Harris engaged in a lengthy debate with conservative commentator Andrew Sullivan on the Internet forum Beliefnet.[27] In April 2007, Harris debated with the evangelical pastor Rick Warren for Newsweek magazine.[28] In April 2011, he debated Christian philosopher William Lane Craig on whether there can be an objective morality without God.[29] In June and July 2018, he met with Canadian psychologist Jordan Peterson for a series of debates on religion, particularly the relationship between religious values and scientific fact in defining truth.[30][31]
In September 2013, Harris began the Waking Up (since re-titled Making Sense) podcast, in which he discusses his views, responds to critics, and interviews guests. The podcasts, having started with very short posts, now vary in length anywhere from 1 hour to over 4 hours. The podcast has no regular release schedule, although the frequency of releases has increased over time.[32] In 2017, the UK Business Insider included it in their list of "8 podcasts that will change how you think about human behavior" and PC Magazine included it in their list of "Podcasts You Should Download Now".[33][34] The Waking Up podcast won the 2017 Webby Award for "People's Voice" in the category "Science & Education" under "Podcasts & Digital Audio".[35]
In September 2018, Harris released a meditation course app, Waking Up with Sam Harris.[9] The app provides daily meditations, long guided meditations, and a selection of other lessons on various related topics.[9] Users of the app are introduced to a number of types of meditation, such as mindfulness meditation, vipassanā-style meditation, and loving-kindness meditation.[9]
While broadly critical of religion in most forms, Harris considers Islam to be "especially belligerent and inimical to the norms of civil discourse", insofar as it involves what Harris considers to be "bad ideas, held for bad reasons, leading to bad behavior."[36]
Harris is critical of the Christian right in politics in the United States, blaming them for the political focus on "pseudo-problems like gay marriage."[37] He is also critical of liberal Christianity—as represented, for instance, by the theology of Paul Tillich—which he argues claims to base its beliefs on the Bible despite actually being influenced by secular modernity. He further states that in so doing liberal Christianity provides rhetorical cover to fundamentalists.[37]
Harris holds that there is "nothing irrational about seeking the states of mind that lie at the core of many religions. Compassion, awe, devotion, and feelings of oneness are surely among the most valuable experiences a person can have."[18]
Harris rejects the dichotomy between spirituality and rationality, favoring a middle path that preserves spirituality and science but does not involve religion.[38] He writes that spirituality should be understood in light of scientific disciplines like neuroscience and psychology.[38] Science, he contends, can show how to maximize human well-being, but may fail to answer certain questions about the nature of being, answers to some of which he says are discoverable directly through our experience.[38] His conception of spirituality does not involve a belief in any god.[39]
In Waking Up: A Guide to Spirituality Without Religion (2014), Harris describes his experience with Dzogchen, a Tibetan Buddhist meditation practice, and recommends it to his readers.[38] He writes that the purpose of spirituality (as he defines it – he concedes that the term's uses are diverse and sometimes indefensible) is to become aware that our sense of self is illusory, and says this realization brings both happiness and insight into the nature of consciousness.[38][40] This process of realization, he argues, is based on experience and is not contingent on faith.[38]
In The Moral Landscape, Harris argues that science answers moral problems and can aid human well-being.[41]
Harris says the idea of free will "cannot be mapped on to any conceivable reality" and is incoherent.[42] Harris writes in Free Will that neuroscience "reveals you to be a biochemical puppet."[43]
Harris describes himself as a liberal, and states that he supports raising taxes on the very wealthy, the decriminalizing of drugs and legalizing of same-sex marriage. He was critical of the Bush administration's war in Iraq, fiscal policy, and treatment of science. However, he also believes liberals dangerously downplay the threat posed by Islamic fundamentalism.[44] He is a registered Democrat.[45]
During the 2016 United States presidential election, Harris supported Hillary Clinton in the Democratic Party presidential primaries against Bernie Sanders,[46] and despite calling her "a terribly flawed candidate for the presidency," he favored her in the general election and came out strongly in opposition to Donald Trump's candidacy.[47][48]
Harris has discussed existential risk from artificial general intelligence in depth.[49] He has given a TED talk on the topic, arguing it will be a major threat in the future and criticizing the paucity of human interest on the subject.[50] He argues the dangers from artificial intelligence (AI) follow from three premises: that intelligence is the result of physical information processing, that humans will continue innovation in AI, and that humans are nowhere near the maximum possible extent of intelligence.[50] Harris states that even if superintelligent AI is five to ten decades away, the scale of its implications for human civilization warrant discussion of the issue in the present.[50]
Glenn Greenwald has claimed that "[Harris] and others like him spout and promote Islamophobia under the guise of rational atheism."  Greenwald claimed that Harris' Islamophobia is revealed by his statements such as: "the people who speak most sensibly about the threat that Islam poses to Europe are actually fascists", and "[t]he only future devout Muslims can envisage — as Muslims — is one in which all infidels have been converted to Islam, politically subjugated, or killed."[51]
Harris has criticized the way the term Islamophobia is commonly used.[52] "My criticism of Islam is a criticism of beliefs and their consequences, but my fellow liberals reflexively view it as an expression of intolerance toward people",[53] he wrote following a disagreement with Ben Affleck in October 2014 on the show Real Time with Bill Maher.  Affleck had described Harris' views on Muslims as "gross" and "racist", and his statement that "Islam  is the Mother lode of bad ideas" as an "ugly thing to say."[54][55]
In April 2017, Harris stirred controversy by hosting the social scientist Charles Murray on his podcast, discussing topics including the heritability of IQ and race and intelligence.[56] Harris stated the invitation was out of indignation at a violent protest against Murray at Middlebury College the month before and not out of particular interest in the material at hand.[56] The podcast episode garnered significant criticism, for instance from Vox[57][58] and Slate.[59] Harris and Murray were defended by conservative commentator Andrew Sullivan, as well as by neuroscientist Richard Haier, who stated that the points Murray claimed were mainstream scientific opinion were indeed mainstream.[60][61] Harris and Vox editor-at-large Ezra Klein later discussed the affair in a podcast interview,[62] where Klein criticized Harris for rebuking tribalism in the form of identity politics while failing to recognize his own version of tribalism.[63] Hatewatch staff at the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote that members of the "skeptics" movement, of which Harris is "one of the most public faces", help to "channel people into the alt-right".[64]
In May 2018, Harris was profiled by Bari Weiss in the New York Times as part of the "Intellectual Dark Web" (a term coined semi-ironically by Eric Weinstein to refer to a particular group of academics and podcast hosts).[48]
Harris's first book, The End of Faith (2004), won the PEN/Martha Albrand Award for First Nonfiction.[65]
Harris was included on a list of the "100 Most Spiritually Influential Living People 2019" in the Watkins Review, a publication of Watkins Books, a London esoterica bookshop.[66]
Harris is a martial arts student and practices Brazilian jiu-jitsu.[67][68]
Harris has been reluctant to discuss personal details such as where he now lives, citing security reasons.[69] In 2004, he married Annaka Harris, an editor of nonfiction and scientific books.[70] They have two daughters.[71][72]
Amila, D. & Shapiro, J. (2018). Islam and the Future of Tolerance. United States: The Orchard.[73][74]

TITLE: David M. Kelley
David M. Kelley (born February 10, 1951) is an American businessman, entrepreneur, designer, engineer, and teacher. He is founder of the design firm IDEO and a professor at Stanford University. He has received several honors for his contributions to design and design education.[2]
Kelley was born in Barberton, Ohio.[3][4] His brother is Tom Kelley, the general manager of IDEO and author of The Art of Innovation and The Ten Faces of Innovation.[5] He earned a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University in 1973,[3] where he was a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, He is married to Katharine C. Branscomb, a former CEO of IntelliCorp, whom he met through mutual friend Steve Jobs.[3]
Kelley began work as an engineer, first at Boeing and later at NCR.[2] At Boeing, he was responsible for the design of the Lavatory Occupied sign for the 747 airplane.[6] This experience led him to return to school. In 1977, he earned his master's degree from the Joint Program in Design at Stanford University, popularly called the Product Design program.[7] In 1978, he partnered with another Stanford Product Design graduate, Dean Hovey, to form Hovey-Kelley Design. Hovey left to pursue other interests and the firm was renamed "David Kelley Design" (DKD).[8]
In 1984, he co-founded Onset Ventures, an early-stage venture capital firm. He also co-founded Edge Innovations, the special-effects company responsible for the whales in the Free Willy movies, among many other film credits.[9] In 1991, Kelley merged DKD with three other design firms (Mike Nuttall's Matrix Product Design in Palo Alto, ID TWO in San Francisco, and Moggridge Associates in London, the latter two founded by Bill Moggridge) to create IDEO, which he ran as CEO until 2000. 
Kelley began teaching in the Stanford Product Design program in 1978, after earning his master's. He was briefly a PhD student.[10] In 1990, he became a tenured professor, and was named the Donald W. Whittier Professor in Mechanical Engineering in 2002.[7] In 2004, Kelley led the creation of the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design at Stanford University, known as the "d.school."[11]
David Kelley has been recognized as one of America's leading design innovators.
In 2013, David and his brother Tom Kelley published Creative Confidence,[12] which a Forbes review called "an empowering, compelling, relentlessly hopeful and optimistic read."[13]
In 2012, Kelley spoke on building creative confidence at TED 2012.[14] He had earlier spoken at TED 2002 on human-centered design.[15]
In 2009, he was awarded the Edison Achievement Award by the Thomas Edison Papers at Rutgers University for his "pioneering contributions to the design of breakthrough products, services, and experiences for consumers, as well as his development of an innovative culture that has broad impact."[16]
In 2005, he was recognized for his "distinguished contribution to design education" with the Sir Misha Black Medal.[17]
In 2001, the Smithsonian's Cooper-Hewitt, National Design Museum presented David Kelley and IDEO with the National Design Award in Product Design.[18]
In 2000, he was honored with a Chrysler Design Award,[19] and was elected to the National Academy of Engineering for "affecting the practice of design."[2]
In 2019, he was conferred an honorary Doctor of Science and Technology by his alma mater, Carnegie Mellon University.[20]

TITLE: G. David Low
George David Low (February 19, 1956 – March 15, 2008[1]) was an American aerospace executive and a NASA astronaut. He was born in 1956 to Dr. George Low, the Manager of the Apollo Spacecraft Program Office. With undergraduate degrees in physics and mechanical engineering and a master's degree in aeronautics and astronautics, he worked in the JPL at the California Institute of Technology in the early 80's, before being picked as an astronaut candidate by NASA in 1984. In addition to holding some technical assignments, he logged more than 700 hours in space (including stints on the Columbia, the Atlantis and the Endeavour), before he left NASA in 1996 to pursue a career in the private sector.
Low was born February 19, 1956, in Cleveland, Ohio and was active in the Boy Scouts of America where he achieved its second highest rank, Life Scout. He was married to the former JoAnn Andochick of Weirton, West Virginia. They had three children Maggie, Chris, and Abigail. He enjoyed tennis, lacrosse, scuba diving, running, and spending time with his family. His mother, Mrs. Mary Ruth Low, died in 2011. His father, Dr. George M. Low, Manager of the Apollo Spacecraft Program Office, in 1968 proposed that Apollo 8 fly around the moon. His widow's parents, Mike and JoAnn Andochick, reside in Weirton, WV.
Low died of colon cancer on March 15, 2008, at Reston Hospital Center in Virginia.[2]
Low graduated from Langley High School, McLean, Virginia, in 1974; received a Bachelor of Science  degree in Physics-Engineering from Washington & Lee University in 1978, a Bachelor of Science  degree in Mechanical Engineering from Cornell University in 1980, and a Master of Science degree in Aeronautics and Astronautics from Stanford University in 1983. He also went to Harvard and Johns Hopkins.
Low worked in the Spacecraft Systems Engineering Section of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology, from March 1980 until June 1984. During that time he was involved in the preliminary planning of several planetary missions, an Autonomous Spacecraft Maintenance study, and the systems engineering design of the Galileo spacecraft. Following a one-year leave to pursue graduate studies, Low returned to JPL where he was the principal spacecraft systems engineer for the Mars Geoscience/Climatology Orbiter mission.
Selected by NASA in May 1984 as an astronaut candidate, Low became an astronaut in June 1985. He held a variety of technical assignments including work on the Remote Manipulator System (RMS), on Extra-vehicular activity (EVA), and Orbiter test and checkout tasks at the Kennedy Space Center. Low served as a spacecraft communicator (CAPCOM) in the Mission Control Center during STS Missions 26, 27, 29 and 30. He also served as the lead astronaut in the Man-Systems Group and Station Operations Group of the Space Station Support Office. In 1993, Low was a member of the Russian Integration Team which worked for several months in Crystal City, Virginia to define the changes from the old Space Station Freedom to the new International Space Station. In 1994, he served as the Manager of the EVA Integration and Operations Office, and in 1995 he served as an assistant in the NASA Legislative Affairs Office where he worked with Members of the United States Congress and their staffs to keep them informed about NASA's aeronautics and space programs. A veteran of three space flights, Low logged over 714 hours in space, including nearly six hours on a spacewalk. He was a mission specialist on STS-32 (January 9–20, 1990) and STS-43 (August 2–11, 1991), and was the payload commander on STS-57 (June 21 to July 1, 1993).
Low left NASA in February 1996 to pursue an aerospace career with Orbital Sciences Corporation's Launch Systems Group in Dulles, VA.
On his first mission, Low was a crew member on STS-32 which launched from the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, on January 9, 1990. On board the Orbiter Columbia the crew successfully deployed the Syncom IV-F5 communications satellite, and retrieved the 21,400-pound Long Duration Exposure Facility (LDEF) using the RMS. They also operated a variety of middeck materials and life sciences experiments, as well as the IMAX camera. Following 173 orbits of the Earth in 261 hours, Columbia returned to a night landing at Edwards Air Force Base, California, on January 20, 1990.
Low next served as the flight engineer aboard the Orbiter Atlantis on STS-43. The nine-day mission launched from the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, on August 2, 1991. During the flight, crew members deployed the fifth Tracking and Data Relay Satellite (TDRS-E), in addition to conducting 32 physical, material, and life science experiments, mostly relating to the Extended Duration Orbiter and Space Station Freedom. After 142 orbits of the Earth in 213 hours, the mission concluded with a landing on Runway 15 at the Kennedy Space Center on August 11, 1991.
On STS-57, Low served as payload commander aboard the Orbiter Endeavour, which launched from the Kennedy Space Center, Florida, on June 21, 1993. The primary objective of this flight was the retrieval of the European Retrievable Carrier satellite (EURECA) using the RMS. Additionally, this mission featured the first flight of Spacehab, a commercially provided middeck augmentation module for the conduct of microgravity experiments. Spacehab carried 22 individual flight experiments in materials and life sciences research. During the mission Low, along with crew mate Peter J.K. Wisoff, conducted a 5-hour, 50-minute spacewalk during which the EURECA communications antennas were manually positioned for latching, and various extravehicular activity (EVA) tools and techniques were evaluated for use on future missions. Endeavour landed at the Kennedy Space Center on July 1, 1993, after 155 orbits of the Earth in 239 hours.


TITLE: Pete Williams (journalist)
Louis Alan "Pete" Williams (born February 28, 1952) is an American journalist and former government official.  Since 1993, he has been a television correspondent for NBC News. He served in the administration of President George H. W. Bush.
Williams was raised in Casper, Wyoming; his mother was a realtor and his father was an orthodontist. "Pete" is a nickname he has used since childhood.[3] After he graduated from Stanford University, where he had originally studied engineering but subsequently changed to journalism,[4] he began his career in local news with the Casper, Wyoming, television station KTWO and its eponymous radio station in 1974.
In 1986, Williams became press secretary for U.S. Representative Dick Cheney and followed Cheney to the United States Department of Defense as Cheney became United States Secretary of Defense to be the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs in 1989 during the George H. W. Bush administration.
Williams became a correspondent for NBC News in late March 1993,[5] after leaving the Defense Department; his main areas of news coverage for NBC include the Department of Justice and Supreme Court.
Pete Williams was born and raised in Casper, Wyoming, where his mother "Bennie" was a teacher, and later a realtor, and his father Louis was a dentist. He was one of three children.[6] Williams graduated from Natrona County High School in 1970.[7] He was a member of his high school's award-winning debating team,[8] and also won an award for public speaking.[9] He was also active in his school's Teenage Republicans club, and a member of the National Honor Society.[10]
Williams graduated from Stanford University in 1974.[11] While at Stanford, he studied Journalism and History, and spent a year studying in London in a Stanford-sponsored overseas program.[12]
From 1974 to 1985, Williams was a reporter and news director for the Casper-based KTWO television and KTWO radio stations.[13] Williams also served as director for the Wyoming Future Project from 1985 to 1986.[2]
In 1986, Williams was hired as press secretary and legislative assistant in the staff of U.S. Representative Dick Cheney. Williams was appointed Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs in 1989, following Cheney's appointment as United States Secretary of Defense, and worked as press secretary of the Defense Department.[13]
While serving as a Pentagon spokesperson, he was accused of allegedly working to cover up the large-scale irregular military activities that had occurred during the US invasion of Panama under the pretense of apprehending Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, which was later featured in the documentary film The Panama Deception (1992).[citation needed]
NBC News hired Williams in March 1993 as justice correspondent based in Washington, D. C., to cover news from the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Supreme Court.[13]
During the Bosnian War, Williams initially denied that there was any evidence of genocide or war crimes, claiming that "we do not see evidence of a program of systematic or massive killing of innocent people". A video clip of the actual statement is featured in the 1997 film Welcome to Sarajevo.[14]
As NBC justice correspondent, Williams has interviewed United States Attorneys General John Ashcroft,[15] Alberto Gonzales,[16] and Eric Holder,[17] as well as FBI Director Christopher Wray.[18]
In covering the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings for MSNBC and NBC News, Williams earned praise from various media analysts for choosing to report events in a restrained, cautionary fashion. In contrast with the Associated Press and CNN, Williams refused to report a later-retracted claim that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had arrested a suspect for the bombing.[19]  For Politico, Dylan Byers commented: "On a major story that has been defined by inaccurate and conflicting reports and wild speculation, Williams has been calm, diligent and correct."[20] Brian Resnick of the National Journal wrote that Williams showed "restraint in not jumping too far into conclusions."[21] The phrase "NBC's Pete Williams" became a trending topic in the overnight hours of April 19, 2013.[22]
Williams has received three national news Emmy awards.[23]
In 2012, the University of Wyoming awarded Williams an honorary Doctor of Letters, in recognition of his many contributions to journalism. He was praised for his "sound judgment, fair mindedness, impeccable ethics, and dedication to service."[24]
Williams was named the recipient of the 2018 John F. Hogan Award, presented annually by the Radio Television Digital News Association (RTDNA). The Hogan Award, named after the association's first president, is given in recognition of "an individual's contributions to the journalism profession and freedom of the press..."  Williams was chosen because "...Over the course of his distinguished career, Pete Williams has served the public first as a government spokesman and then, for the last 25 years, as a reporter covering government,” said Scott Libin, current Chair of RTDNA. "His insight and understanding of power and politics have proven hugely valuable to the viewers of NBC News."[25]

TITLE: Patrick M. Byrne
Patrick M. Byrne (born November 29th, 1962) is an American entrepreneur who was the CEO of Overstock.com. In 1999, Byrne launched Overstock, after leading two smaller companies, including one owned by Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway.[2]
In 2002, Byrne took Overstock.com public. Since its initial public offering, Overstock.com has increased revenue to almost $1.8 billion, while achieving profitability in 2009.[3]
In 2005, Byrne became known for his campaign against illegal naked short selling. Byrne and securities regulators maintain illegal naked shorting has been used in violation of securities law to distort prices of public companies' stock.[4]  Under his direction, Overstock.com filed two lawsuits alleging improper acts by Wall Street firms, a hedge fund, and an independent research firm.[5] In each case the defendants have settled with Overstock out of court.
Byrne has advocated for cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin.[6] In January 2014, Overstock.com became the first major online retailer to accept bitcoin.[7]
Byrne took an indefinite leave of absence from Overstock.com in April 2016 because of Hepatitis C complications.[8] Byrne returned in July 2016 as CEO after Hepatitis C recovery.[9] He resigned in August 2019,[10] following revelations that he had been in an intimate relationship with Maria Butina and comments he made supporting the Deep State conspiracy theory.[11]
Patrick Byrne was born in Fort Wayne, Indiana. He is the son of John J. Byrne, former chairman of Berkshire Hathaway's GEICO insurance subsidiary and White Mountains Insurance Group.[12] He holds a certificate from Beijing Normal University, has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Chinese studies from Dartmouth College, a master's degree from Cambridge University as a Marshall Scholar, and a Ph.D. in philosophy from Stanford University.[13][14]
Byrne was a teaching fellow at Stanford University from 1989 to 1991 and was manager of Blackhawk Investment Co. and Elissar, Inc. He served as chairman, president and CEO of Centricut, LLC, a manufacturer of industrial torches, then held the same three positions at Fechheimer Brothers, Inc., a Berkshire Hathaway company manufacturing police, firefighter, and military uniforms.[12][15]
Byrne has a black belt in tae kwon do, and once pursued a career in professional boxing. He is a cancer survivor, and has ridden a bicycle across the country to raise awareness and money for cancer research at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute. Byrne has also supported implementing school vouchers and other educational reforms.[16] Byrne was the largest donor to political causes in Utah during 2003–2006, while his father was the third-largest.[17]
In 1999, Byrne was approached by the founder of D2-Discounts Direct with a request for operating capital. The company had generated slightly more than $500,000 in revenue the previous year by liquidating excess inventory online. Byrne found the idea of online closeouts intriguing, and invested $7 million for a 60 percent equity stake in the company in the spring of 1999. In September the same year he took over as CEO, and the following month the company was renamed Overstock.com.[18][19]
Byrne initiated a Dutch auction IPO of Overstock.com in 2002. The company was one of the first to go public under a system advanced by WR Hambrecht + Co to retain a greater share of capital within the company rather than going to the investment bank underwriters used in conventional public offerings. Byrne has said that competing banks reacted against this, attempting to obstruct the success of the offering through negative reports and by shorting the company's stock.[20] When Google later in 2004 went public via a Dutch auction IPO, Byrne commented that Wall Street firms similarly pushed negative stories, but did not keep it from going forward successfully.[21] Four years after the OpenIPO, one official of Hambrecht, its now former co-CEO Clay Corbus was added to Overstock's board of directors.[22]
Byrne abruptly resigned his board seat and position as CEO of Overstock.com after it was revealed that he had an affair with a Russian agent. Jonathan E. Johnson will serve as interim CEO until a replacement is named by the board.[23]
In a conference call with analysts in August 2005, Byrne said that "there's been a plan since we were in our teens to destroy our stock, drive it down to $6–$10 ... and even a plan for how the company would then get whacked up." He said that the conspirators were part of a "Miscreants Ball," headed by a "Sith Lord," whom he refused to identify but said "he's one of the master criminals from the 1980s." Byrne said the conspiracy included hedge funds, journalists, investigators, trial lawyers, the SEC, and Eliot Spitzer. Fortune writer Bethany McLean said that Byrne had become a "hero to those who believe that short-sellers are the operators of Wall Street's ultimate black box, predators who destroy companies through innuendo, bullying, political connections—and sometimes through an illegal practice known as 'naked shorting.'" Byrne financed and largely wrote a full-page advertisement in The Washington Post which said "Naked short-selling ... is literally stealing money from the widows, retirees, and other small investors."[24]  In a letter to The Wall Street Journal in April 2006, Byrne contended that "blackguards have practiced 'failure to deliver'" of securities, were "destroying businesses and (probably) destabilizing our capital markets."[25][26]  Since 2005, Overstock has filed two lawsuits relating to the matters under Byrne's direction.[27] After her article appeared in 2005, McLean was attacked by Byrne with such vehemence that she ceased covering him.[28]
In the first lawsuit, filed 2005, Overstock.com filed suit against hedge fund Rocker Partners and the equities research firm, Gradient Analytics (formerly Camelback Research Alliance), saying they illegally colluded in short-selling the company while paying for negative reports to drive down share prices.[29] The defendant (i.e.  Gradient Analytics et al.) moved to have the case dismissed, however the California court ruled in August 2006 that the suit should be allowed to proceed.[30] Gradient filed a counter-complaint against Byrne for libel.[31] A portion of this suit was settled out of court on October 13, 2008, when Overstock.com and Gradient dropped the claims against each other after Gradient retracted allegations that Overstock's reporting methods did not comply with rules established by the FASB, stated they believed Overstock.com complied with GAAP standards, and that three directors were independent, and apologized.[32][33] In December 2009, the suit against Rocker, whose name had since been changed to Copper River Partners, was settled by Copper River paying $5 million,[34] payment of which Byrne stated he received on December 9, 2009.[35]
Overstock.com filed a second lawsuit in 2007 against a number of large investment banks relating directly to alleged illegal naked short selling.[36]  All parties have settled with Overstock except for Merrill Lynch.[37][38]
Byrne's campaign against naked short selling and others who he feels have targeted him and his company has attracted controversy, though after the crisis in the North American markets in 2008, Byrne received positive press. A Salt Lake Tribune article reported that "These days, when people talk of Byrne, the word 'vindication' comes up a lot."[39]
In October 2011, Vancouver businessman, Altaf Nazerali sued Byrne for libel and defamation in the Supreme Court of British Columbia for articles published in Byrne's "Deep Capture" website. The articles described Nazerali as being involved with "Osama Bin Laden's favorite financier," and that he worked with criminal syndicates including the Colombian drug cartel, the Russian mafia, and various "jihadi terrorist groups" including al Qaeda's Golden Chain. Deep Capture also accused Nazerali of "delivering weapons to war zones in Africa and to the mujahedeen in Afghanistan," of orchestrating "small-time 'pump and dump' scams… [and] bust-outs, death spiral finance and naked short selling," and of carrying out dirty work for "a Pakistani ISI asset" who "works for the Iranian regime." In May 2016, the Court found that the allegations in the Deep Capture articles were libelous and defamatory; Nazerali was awarded $1.2 million in damages, including $500,000 in aggravated damages, $250,000 in punitive damages and $55,000 in special damages.[40] Byrne was permanently banned from publishing these accusations. The Court found Byrne, his employee Mark Mitchell, and Deep Capture "engaged in a calculated and ruthless campaign to inflict as much damage on Mr. Nazerali's reputation as they could achieve." The 102-page decision said "It is clear on the evidence that their intention was to conduct a vendetta in which the truth about Mr. Nazerali himself was of no consequence."[41][42][43]
The judgment was upheld on appeal in August 2018.[44][45][46][47][48]
Media outlets have covered Byrne's statments against naked shorting, including The Wall Street Journal, ABC News with Peter Jennings, Fortune, CBS Market Watch, and BusinessWeek, among others. He has also appeared on Bloomberg TV, CNBC, and Fox News shows such as Your World with Neil Cavuto. In 2002, Byrne was named to BusinessWeek's list of the 25 most influential people in e-Business in 2002: the magazine cited survival strength and vision as qualities that qualified Byrne for the list.[49] and Ernst & Young awarded Byrne the "2002 Milestone Award Winner Utah Region."[16][50] Also in 2003 Overstock came no.1 in MountainWest Capital Network (MWCN) Utah100 award for the fastest growing company in Utah. Fastest Growing category are based on percentage revenue increases in the five preceding years.[51] Byrne also won the first-ever Utah Best of State Awards for Community Development in 2003.[52]
In 2008, Byrne published on his website an investigative report by a Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism reporter, Mark Mitchell, which alleged "a circle of corruption enclosing venerable Wall Street banks, shady offshore financiers, and suspiciously compliant reporters at The Wall Street Journal, Fortune, CNBC, and The New York Times". [2][3]
In 2019, Byrne announced that had had a relationship with Russian agent Maria Butina and also made claims in support of a deep state conspiracy theory.[53] Byrne also claimed the Federal Bureau of Investigation encouraged him to have a sexual relationship with Butina.[54] After he resigned as Overstock CEO on August 22, 2019, in the wake of that controversy, the company's share value rose by more than 10 percent, before collapsing nearly 50% from that point. [55]
In 2005, Byrne provided financial backing to the Class Education, whose goal is to change state laws to require schools to spend at least 65 percent of their operating budgets on classroom expenses. Proponents of the standard contend that it would free up money to increase teachers' salaries without requiring tax increases. Critics say that many services deemed "non-classroom" are necessary for education, including librarians, school nurses, guidance counselors, food service workers and school bus drivers.[56][57][58]
Byrne also serves as co-chair (with Rose Friedman) of EdChoice. The non-profit organization was founded by Milton and Rose Friedman and promotes school vouchers and other forms of school choice.[59]
Byrne and his family contributed most of the funds in support of House Bill 148 in Utah, a bill that would allow the state to provide funding vouchers for students who decide to leave public schools for private schools.[60] In January 2008, it was reported that Byrne and his parents contributed about $4 million to the pro-voucher campaign, or three-quarters of its $5.4 million funding. Opponents of vouchers, funded mostly by the teacher unions, spent $4 million; approximately $3 million came from the National Education Association.[61][62] When that bill was defeated in a statewide referendum (62% opposing vs. 38% favoring),[63] the Salt Lake Tribune reported that Byrne "called the referendum a 'statewide IQ test' that Utahns failed." He said, "They don't care enough about their kids. They care an awful lot about this system, this bureaucracy, but they don't care enough about their kids to think outside the box."[64]
Byrne criticized Utah governor Jon Huntsman for not sufficiently supporting the voucher campaign. Huntsman had before he was elected stated that he was "going to be the voucher governor", and Byrne had donated $75,000 to Huntsman's campaign for governor in 2004. However, when Huntsman was elected he went missing from the debate, and Byrne told the Associated Press that he would now bankroll anyone who could defeat Huntsman at the polls, "even a communist".[65]

TITLE: Razmig Hovaghimian
Razmig Hovaghimian is an American entrepreneur. He is co-founder and CEO of the international online streaming video site Viki, and senior executive officer of global content and a board observer at Rakuten. He is also a co-founder and board member of Embrace.
Hovaghimian was born in Cairo, Egypt, to Armenian parents. He moved to Los Angeles, California, by himself at the age of 16. Hovaghimian attended the University of California at Berkeley, majoring in political economy and minoring in business administration. After graduating, he spent time as a consultant at Mitchell Madison Group in the US and Europe, before relocating to Japan to work as a management consultant at ad agency Dentsu.[1][2] He returned to the US to attend the Stanford Graduate School of Business, where he received his MBA.[3]
While attending Stanford, after a summer spent working with the United Nations in South Sudan, Hovaghimian, Jane Chen, Rahul Panicker and Linus Liang founded Embrace, an affordable alternative to a premature infant incubator, designed specifically for infants in developing countries and isolated communities. It can be manufactured at a cost much lower than that of an incubator. Launched in 2011, the Embrace looks like a tiny sleeping bag, with an electric heater and a wrap for the infant to keep the temperature warm. It started as a class project, growing to a company based in 14 countries as of 2014.[1][4][5]
Embrace received an INDEX People's Choice Award, and in 2010 was selected as an Innovative Technology for Public Health by the World Health Organization.[5]
In 2007, Hovaghimian went to work at NBCUniversal in the strategic planning group. By 2009, he was a senior vice president, as Viki, then a part-time project, continued to grow. Hovaghimian left NBC later that year to focus full-time on Viki.[1][3][6]
Hovaghimian is the co-founder and CEO of Viki, an international online video service that specializes in licensing television content for online distribution.[7][8] Initially called Viikii.net, the company was conceived with Changseong Ho and Jiwon Moon as a Stanford class project.[9][1] Viki gets its name from combining the words video and wiki.[10] It was originally created as a language-learning tool, helping its users learn languages by creating subtitles on online videos, before morphing into an international online video site, licensing content from countries across the globe, with subtitles crowd sourced from its international community of viewers and volunteer translators.[1][10][11]
In 2010, Hovaghimian incorporated Viki and moved to Singapore, where he set up the company's headquarters and hired its first engineers.[12] He chose Singapore for the company's headquarters in part due to its proximity to key Asian markets.[9] The company also maintains offices in San Francisco, Seoul and Tokyo.[13] The beta version of Viki.com was released in December 2010.[14] Also in 2010, Viki raised $4.3 million in Series A funding from investors including Reid Hoffman of Greylock Partners, Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz, Charles River Ventures and Joi Ito's Neotney Labs. At the time, it had 4 million active monthly users.[9][1][15] Later that year, Ho and Moon left Viki.[1] In 2011, the company raised an additional $20 million in Series B funding, led by SK Telecom and BBC Worldwide.[3] SurveyMonkey CEO Dave Goldberg and Sling Media founder Blake Kirkorian became strategic investors in 2013.[15]
Viki was acquired by Japanese e-commerce group Rakuten in September 2013 for approximately $200 million.[9][13] At the time, Viki had 22 million viewers per month, and over 200 different viewer countries in Europe, Asia, North America, Africa, Latin America and the Middle East.[13][15][16] As of September 2014, Viki has 30 million unique viewers per month, and content translated into 200 languages.[17]
In December 2013, following its acquisition of Viki, Rakuten announced that Hovaghimian would become its senior executive officer of global content.[1][18] He oversees Rakuten's entire video content business worldwide, including Viki.com and Wuaki.tv, which airs paid premium content in Europe. He was also named an observer to Rakuten's board of directors.[19]
In 2014, Hovaghimian invested in Singapore-based web development platform Nitrous.IO.[20] Later that year, he invested in Envoy, a digital visitor registration app.[21]
Hovaghimian served as a producer on Ozuma, a 2012 Japanese anime television series based on the works of Leiji Matsumoto.[3] He has also helped to produce several short films, including Oh Lucy! which premiered at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival and received a second place Cinéfondation Award,[23] and received an honorable mention for Best International Short Film at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival.[24]
Hovaghimian lives in San Francisco, California, with his wife and children.[12][25]

TITLE: D. James Baker
Donald James Baker (born March 23, 1937) is an American scientist who was trained as a physicist, practiced as an oceanographer, and has held science and management positions in academia, non-profit institutions, and government agencies. He a former Under Secretary of Commerce for Atmosphere and Oceans and Administrator of the U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and currently Director, Global Carbon Measurement Program, William J. Clinton Foundation working with forestry programs in developing countries with the aim of reducing carbon dioxide emissions and at the same time helping alleviate poverty.
Baker was born in Long Beach, California.[1] He graduated from Stanford University with a B.S. degree in physics, and obtained his Ph.D. in experimental physics in 1962 from Cornell University. He was a post-doctoral fellow in oceanography at the University of Rhode Island under John Knauss, who later preceded Baker as Under Secretary of Commerce and Administrator of NOAA. He was awarded a post-doctoral fellowship to work with Nobel Laureate Melvin Calvin at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory of the University of California on photosynthesis. In 1964, he moved to Harvard University, where he served as Assistant and Associate Professor of Oceanography. From Harvard, he joined the University of Washington in 1973, where held a faculty position and co-founded and served as the first Dean of the College of Ocean and Fishery Sciences. During that period he also served as a group leader for Deep-Sea Physics at NOAA's Pacific Marine Environmental Laboratory. In 1983, he moved to Washington, D.C. where he served as President of Joint Oceanographic Institutions, Incorporated, managing the international Ocean Drilling Program and coordinating an ocean community effort on oceanography from space with NASA. He was appointed by President William J. Clinton as Under Secretary of Commerce and Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in 1993 and served until 2001, the longest tenure of any person in that position to date. During that period he also served a co-chair of the interagency Committee on Environment and Natural Resources, an ex officio member of the President's Council on Sustainable Development, and as the U.S. Whaling Commissioner, as well as serving briefly as Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality. In 2002, he became the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Academy of Natural Sciences in Philadelphia, established in 1812 and the oldest natural history museum in the western hemisphere. He has served as a science and management consultant to the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO in Paris, France and to the H. John Heinz Center for Science, Economics, and the Environment in Washington, D.C. He joined the Clinton Foundation in 2007. He currently holds faculty appointments at the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Delaware, and is a Visiting Senior Fellow at the Center for the Analysis of Time Series at the London School of Economics and Political Science. Over almost the last two decades he has been an advisor to former Vice President Al Gore and he has given advice on the Oscar-winning film An Inconvenient Truth.
Baker has published more than 150 scientific and policy papers, reviews, and reports in oceanography, climate, observation technology, and sustainable development. He has joined oceanographic expeditions to many parts of the world and is the co-holder of a U.S. patent on the design of a deep-sea pressure gauge which was used to make the first deep-sea tide measurement in the Antarctic Ocean. He is the author of the book Planet Earth: The View from Space, which was published by Harvard University Press.
Baker is one of co-founders and first President of The Oceanography Society, an elected member of the American Philosophical Society, and a fellow of the American Meteorological Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He has served as the B. Benjamin Zucker Environmental Fellow at Yale University. In 2008 he was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by Oceanology International for his "contribution to oceanography and marine science, and in 1998 the Government of India awarded him the Vikram Sarabhai Medal for his "outstanding contributions to space research in developing countries". He has been awarded two honorary degrees. He lectures regularly on the subjects of sustainability, climate change, and oceanography, has chaired numerous national and international advisory committees, and has testified frequently to the U.S. Congress.

TITLE: Robert A. Johnson (psychotherapist)
Robert Alex Johnson (May 26, 1921 – September 12, 2018) was an American Jungian analyst and author.[1] His books have sold more than 2.5 million copies.[citation needed]
Johnson was born in Portland, Oregon. He studied at the University of Oregon and Stanford University. In 1945, he went to Ojai, California, as a student of Jiddu Krishnamurti, an Indian spiritual teacher.  In 1947 he began his own therapy with Fritz Künkel. He later studied at the C. G. Jung Institute in Zürich, Switzerland, where Emma Jung, the wife of C. G. Jung, was his principal analyst. He completed his analytical training with Künkel and Tony Sussman. He established an analytical practice in Los Angeles in the early 1950s with Helen Luke. In the early 1960s he closed his practice and became a member of St. Gregory's Abbey, Three Rivers, in Michigan, a Benedictine monastery of the Episcopal Church.
After four years in the monastery, Johnson returned to California in 1967. He resumed his career as a psychotherapist and lectured at St. Paul’s Cathedral in San Diego, working closely with John A. Sanford, an Episcopal priest, Jungian analyst, and author. In 1974, a collection of his lectures was published as He: Understanding Masculine Psychology. The book became a bestseller after Harper & Row acquired the rights. He was the first of many books giving a Jungian interpretation, in accessible language, of earlier myths and stories and their parallels with psychology and personal development.
Johnson also studied at the Sri Aurobindo Ashram in Pondicherry, India.[2] In 2002 he received an honorary doctorate in humanities and a lifetime achievement award from Pacifica Graduate Institute.
Johnson lived in San Diego, California, where he died in September 2018 at the age of 97.[3]

TITLE: John S. Bull
John Sumter Bull, Ph.D. (September 25, 1934 – August 11, 2008), was an American naval officer and aviator, fighter pilot, test pilot, mechanical and aeronautical engineer, and NASA astronaut.
Bull was born on September 25, 1934, in Memphis, Tennessee, where he attended primary and secondary schools and graduated in 1952 from Central High School.[1]:34 He received a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University in 1957.[1]:34 Bull took leave from working at NASA Ames to earn a Master of Science and Ph.D. degrees from Stanford University in Aeronautical Engineering in 1971 and 1973, respectively.[1]:366
In his youth, he was active in the Boy Scouts of America.[2]
Bull joined the U.S. Navy in June 1957.[3] Following his flight training, from March 1959 to November 1960, he flew the F-3 Demon and F-4 Phantom II while assigned to VF-114 at the Naval Air Station in Mirimar, California. Bull was a Navy fighter pilot with the VF-114 squadron aboard the aircraft carriers USS Ranger, USS Hancock, and USS Kitty Hawk.[1]:34
Bull graduated from the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School in February 1964, as an outstanding graduate. He was a project test pilot in the Carrier Suitability Branch  at the Naval Air Test Center at Patuxent River, Maryland, at the time of his astronaut selection.[1]:34
He has logged more than 2,100 hours flying time; 1,800 hours in jet aircraft.[3]
Bull was selected in 1966 as a member of NASA Astronaut Group 5.[4] Together with Ken Mattingly and Gerald Carr, Bull was named on November 20, 1967 to the support crew for the second Apollo manned flight of the Saturn V, Apollo 8, to assist prime and backup crew members as they trained.[5] Bull was also chosen as Lunar Module Pilot, with James Irwin as Commander, for LTA-8, an environmental qualification test of the Apollo Lunar Module in a vacuum chamber at the Houston Space Environment Simulation Laboratory. Just before the May–June 1968 test, Bull was found to have a severe sinus problem, and was replaced with his backup, a Grumman consulting pilot.[6] Bull was subsequently diagnosed as suffering from pulmonary disease, and resigned from the astronaut corps in July 1968. Following his retirement, he received a job at NASA Ames.[1]:34,365
After receiving his Ph.D., Bull returned to NASA and worked at the Ames Research Center from 1973 to 1985, where he conducted simulation and flight test research in advanced flight systems for both helicopters and fixed-wing aircraft. Around 1983, he became chief of the Aircraft Systems Branch. From 1986 until his retirement from NASA in 1989, he managed NASA-wide research programs in autonomous systems technology for space applications. He continued working with Ames as a consultant until his final retirement in 1997.[1]:366
Bull was married to the former Nancy Laraine Gustafson of Seattle, Washington, with two children, a son and a daughter: Scott A. (born December 30, 1968) and Whitney A. (born August 1, 1971), and four grandchildren.[3]
Bull died on August 11, 2008 at the age of 73 in South Lake Tahoe, California, due to complications related to long-term asthma.[1]:367
Bull was a member of the Society of Experimental Test Pilots, Sigma Tau Engineering Fraternity, Tau Beta Pi Engineering Fraternity, Sigma Xi, American Helicopter Society, and American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics.[3]
Bull's early abandoned career is briefly discussed in Codex Regius (2014). The Forgotten Astronauts:A rarely told Chapter of American Spaceflight History. ISBN 1-4996-1012-2..mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg/12px-Wikisource-logo.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}

TITLE: Reid Hoffman
Reid Garrett Hoffman CBE[3] (born August 5, 1967) is an American internet entrepreneur, venture capitalist and author. Hoffman was the co-founder and executive chairman of LinkedIn, a business-oriented social network used primarily for professional networking. He is currently a partner at the venture capital firm Greylock Partners. On the Forbes 2019 list of the world's billionaires, Hoffman was ranked #1349 with a net worth of US$1.8 billion.[4]
Hoffman was born in Palo Alto, California, to Deanna Ruth (Rutter) and William Parker Hoffman, Jr., and grew up in Berkeley, California. His paternal great-great-great-grandfather was Theophilus Adam Wylie, a Christian Presbyterian minister and Indiana University president pro tempore.[5][6][7] Reid's uncle Eric Hoffman is a writer.[8][9]
Hoffman described himself an avid tabletop roleplaying gamer as a child.[10] His first paid job (at age 12) was as an editor at the game company Chaosium, then based in Oakland near his home.[11] Although he was only 14 years old at the time, Hoffman's name was featured on the box of Chaosium's RuneQuest role-playing game release Borderlands (1982), receiving equal billing with game designers Steve Perrin, Sandy Petersen and Greg Stafford.[12]
Hoffman attended high school at The Putney School,[13] where he farmed maple syrup, drove oxen and studied epistemology.[14] He graduated from Stanford University in 1990, where he won both a Marshall Scholarship and a Dinkelspiel Award, with a B.S. in Symbolic Systems and Cognitive Science.[15] He went on to earn an M.St. in Philosophy from Wolfson College, Oxford University in 1993 as a Marshall Scholar.
While in college, according to Hoffman, he formed a conviction that he wanted to try to influence the state of the world on a large scale.[14] He saw academia as an opportunity to make an "impact," but later realized that an entrepreneurial career would provide him with a larger platform. "When I graduated from Stanford my plan was to become a professor and public intellectual. That is not about quoting Kant. It's about holding up a lens to society and asking 'who are we?' and 'who should we be, as individuals and a society?' But I realised academics write books that 50 or 60 people read and I wanted more impact."[16]
With that in mind, Hoffman pursued a career in business and entrepreneurship. His first job was an internship at Inglenook, a winery in Napa Valley.[17] He later joined Apple Computer in 1994, where he worked on eWorld, an early attempt at creating a social network. eWorld was acquired by AOL in 1996.[18] He later worked at Fujitsu before co-founding his first company – SocialNet.com in 1997. It focused "on online dating and matching up people with similar interests, like golfers who were looking for partners in their neighborhood."[19] Peter Thiel has said SocialNet.com was "literally an idea before its time. It was a social network 7 or 8 years before that became a trend."[18]
While at SocialNet, Hoffman was a member of the board of directors during the founding of PayPal, an electronic money transmission service. In January 2000, he left SocialNet and joined PayPal full-time as the company's COO.[19] Allen Blue, whom Hoffman hired at PayPal, said that "PayPal had to scratch and claw for every advantage it had, and Reid became an expert at competing effectively in an extremely competitive environment."[18] Hoffman was responsible for all external relationships for PayPal, including payments infrastructure (VISA, MasterCard, ACH, WellsFargo), business development (eBay, Intuit, and others), government (regulatory, judicial), and legal. Peter Thiel, Hoffman's boss at PayPal, has said that Hoffman "was the firefighter-in-chief at PayPal. Though that diminishes his role because there were many, many fires."[19][20] At the time of PayPal's acquisition by eBay for $1.5B in 2002, he was executive vice president of PayPal.
Hoffman co-founded LinkedIn in December 2002 with two former colleagues from SocialNet (including Allen Blue), a former college classmate and a former colleague from his time at Fujitsu.[14] It launched on May 5, 2003, as one of the first business-oriented online social networks.[21] Peter Thiel and Keith Rabois, colleagues of Hoffman's at PayPal, invested in LinkedIn.[14] By November 2014, LinkedIn had over 332 million members in more than 200 countries and territories.[21] The site allows registered users to create professional profiles and connect with each other. Users can invite anyone (whether a site user or not) to become a connection. According to Forbes, "LinkedIn is, far and away, the most advantageous social networking tool available to job seekers and business professionals today."[22]
Hoffman was LinkedIn's founding CEO for the first four years before becoming chairman and president of products in February 2007. He became executive chairman in June 2009.[23] With the IPO of LinkedIn on May 19, 2011, Hoffman owns a stake worth an estimated $2.34 billion, not including any potential benefits from Greylock Partners, where he was named a partner in 2009.[24] Hoffman believes that many people still do not know how to use its service and it is LinkedIn's job to help them out. In an interview, Hoffman said that "you have to think proactively about how to use a tool that enables your ability to move in ways that you weren't able to move before, and most of people are not very good at that".[25]
Microsoft proposed to acquire LinkedIn on June 13, 2016 for $26.2 billion in cash.[26] Hoffman became a Microsoft board member on March 14, 2017.[27]
After the PayPal sale to eBay, Hoffman became one of Silicon Valley's most prolific and successful angel investors. According to venture capitalist David Sze, Hoffman "is arguably the most successful angel investor in the past decade."[28] Dave Goldberg, former CEO of SurveyMonkey, said that Hoffman "is the person you want to talk to when you are starting a company."[18] In 2010 Hoffman joined Greylock Partners and runs their $20 million Discovery Fund.[29] His areas of focus at Greylock include consumer and services, enterprise software, consumer Internet, enterprise 2.0, mobile, social gaming, online marketplaces, payments, and social networks.[30]
According to David Kirkpatrick's book The Facebook Effect, Hoffman arranged the first meeting between Mark Zuckerberg and Peter Thiel, which led to Thiel's initial $500,000 angel investment in Facebook. Hoffman invested alongside Thiel in Facebook's first financing round.[31][32]
Hoffman's current venture capital investments include Airbnb, Apollo Fusion, Aurora, Blockstream, Coda, Convoy, Entrepreneur First, Gixo, Nauto, Xapo.[33]
Past investments include 3DSolve, Coupons.com, Digg, Edmodo, Flickr, IronPort, Knewton, Kongregate, Last.fm, Nanosolar, One Kings Lane, Permuto, Ping.fm, Shopkick, SixApart, thesixtyone, Swipely, Tagged, Technetto, TrialPay, Vendio, VigLink, Viki, Wikia, and Wrapp.[34] He served on Zynga's board of directors from March 2008 to June 2014, and on shopkick's board of directors from its foundation in July 2009 until its acquisition by SK Telecom in October 2014.
Hoffman has spoken at the XPrize Foundation's conference, the TED conference in Long Beach in 2012, and Fast Forward’s Accelerate Good Global in 2020. He is a frequent lecturer at Stanford University, Oxford University, Harvard University, MIT's Media Lab MIT Media Lab, and others. He has appeared on The Charlie Rose Show, Fareed Zakaria's Global Public Square on CNN and other current affairs television programs.
Hoffman has published a variety of posts as a "LinkedIn Influencer" on LinkedIn. He published an essay proposing a new form of credentialing for university students and professionals entitled "Disrupting the Diploma."[35] On his personal website, he published "LinkedIn's Series B Pitch to Greylock: Pitch Advice for Entrepreneurs," in which he analyzed LinkedIn's 2004 Series B venture funding pitch deck and offered advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to formulate a pitch deck.[36]
Hoffman has also written op-eds in the Washington Post, including one published in 2009 entitled "Let Startups Bail Us Out"[37] encouraging funding for grassroots innovation in the wake of the financial crisis and another in June 2013 entitled "Immigration promotes entrepreneurship and prosperity" advocating for immigration reform.[38] He has written for Strategy+Business on professional networking and is an "Influencer" on LinkedIn where he posts original written content.[39][40]
Hoffman is co-author, with Ben Casnocha, of the career book The Start-Up of You: Adapt to the Future, Invest in Yourself, and Transform your Career.[14]
The book was released in the United States on February 14, 2012. It argues that individuals should think of themselves as businesses-of-one – the "CEO of their own career" – and draws many parallels between lessons learned from the stories of successful Silicon Valley technology companies and an individual's career.[41]
Publishers Weekly reviewed the book positively, saying, "with plenty of valuable guidance relevant to any career stage, this book will help readers not only survive professionally in times of uncertainty but stand out from the pack and flourish."[42] The Economist said that "Hoffman and Casnocha make a number of astute observations about shifts in the world of work."[43]
As of September 2012 it had sold more than 100,000 copies.[44] It became both a New York Times and Wall Street Journal bestseller.[45][46] Business Insider republished visual summaries of The Start-Up of You, which have received over 13 million views.[47]
Hoffman is co-author, with Ben Casnocha and Chris Yeh, of the management book The Alliance: Managing Talent in the Networked Age.[48]
The book was released in the United States on July 8, 2014. It argues that previous career models of lifetime employment and free agency no longer work in a business world defined by continuous change. Instead, it proposes that employers and employees should think of each other as "allies" and move from a transactional approach to employment to a "relational" one. It proposes a new framework for managers and employers to organize their work, described as "tours of duty." Further, it argues why managers should encourage their employees to gather "network intelligence" and why companies and managers should maintain a lifelong relationship with former employees via a corporate alumni network.[49]
The book became a New York Times bestseller.[50] Arianna Huffington named The Alliance "the must-read book of the summer" in 2014.[51]
On 25 April 2017, Reid Hoffman announced the launch of a new podcast called "Masters of Scale." In each episode, Reid acts as the host, introducing a counterintuitive business theory and proving it out through the episode through a series of conversations with successful entrepreneurs. Masters of Scale is committed to a 50-50 gender balance.[52] The official podcast launched on 5 May 2017 on the Entrepreneur Magazine website but is now hosted at mastersofscale.com. Episodes so far feature guests such as Mark Zuckerberg, Brian Chesky, John Elkann, Sheryl Sandberg, Stewart Butterfield, Diane Greene, and Nancy Lublin.
Hoffman is co-author, with Chris Yeh, of the book Blitzscaling: The Lightning-Fast Path to Building Massively Valuable Companies.[53] The book was released in the United States on October 9, 2018. It argues that the secret to starting and scaling massively valuable companies is “blitzscaling”, a set of techniques for “scaling up at a dizzying pace that blows competitors out of the water.”[54]
In 2004, Hoffman married Michelle Yee.[67] The couple has resided in Palo Alto, CA for 10 years.
Jeff Weiner, LinkedIn's CEO, has said that "Reid's true north is making a positive and lasting impact on the world, in a very profound way."[18] Hoffman currently serves on the boards of Kiva.org (peer-peer microlending pioneer that allows people to lend money via the internet to low-income/underserved entrepreneurs and students), Endeavor Global (an organization that finds and supports high-impact entrepreneurs in emerging markets), Opportunity@Work (a nonprofit social enterprise dedicated to re-wiring the U.S. labor market through innovative technology and education financing),[68] and Do Something (an organization motivating young people to take action around social changes). Hoffman also serves on the advisory council of the MIT Media Lab and is a supporter and chair of the advisory board for QuestBridge (a provider of talented low-income students to top colleges/universities).[69] Hoffman is one of the financial backers of OpenAI, a non-profit company aimed at the safe development of artificial general intelligence.[70] Hoffman is also a primary funder of Crisis Text Line, a free, 24/7 crisis service via SMS in the US.[71] In 2013, Hoffman provided a $250,000 matching grant to Code for America.[72] In July 2016, Hoffman funded the $250,000 cash-prize MIT Media Lab Disobedience Award,[73][74] an award created by Hoffman and Joi Ito to honor and recognize acts of disobedience resulting in positive social impact.[75] In November 2016, Hoffman and his wife, Michelle Yee, donated $20 million to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, a charity dedicated to eradicating disease by 2100. Hoffman and Yee's donation was for the Biohub, the Initiative's San Francisco laboratory. Hoffman also joined the board of the Biohub project.[76] In May 2018, Hoffman and Yee joined the Giving Pledge, "a global effort to help address society’s most pressing problems by encouraging the wealthiest individuals and families to give the majority of their wealth to philanthropic causes."[77]
Since 2011 Hoffman is a member of the Bilderberg Group, which gathers 120-150 North American and European "political leaders and experts from industry, finance, academia and the media"[78] for an annual invitation-only closed-door conference. Since then he has attended every year with the exception of 2013.[79][80] Hoffman is also listed as a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, to which he was elected in 2015.[81][82]
In April 2013, a pro-immigration lobbying group called FWD.us was launched, with Reid Hoffman listed as one of the founders.[83] In 2014, Hoffman donated $150,000 to the Mayday PAC.[84] Also in 2014, Hoffman contributed $500,000 toward David Chiu's State Assembly campaign by funding an independent expenditure committee devoted to negative campaigning against his opponent: San Franciscans to Hold Campos Accountable — Vote No for Campos for State Assembly 2014.[85]
In 2016, Hoffman contributed $220,000 in support of Democratic candidate for Vermont governor Matt Dunne, according to a mass-media disclosure filed at the Vermont Secretary of State's Office.[86]
In 2016, Hoffman created Trumped Up Cards, a card game modeled after Cards Against Humanity intended to poke fun at US presidential candidate Donald Trump.[87] In December 2018, the New York Times broke a story alleging that Hoffman had "put $100,000 into an experiment that adopted Russia-inspired political disinformation tactics on Facebook" during the 2017 special Senate race in Alabama, which allegedly targeted Roy Moore voters. Hoffman did not immediately respond.[88] He apologized later that month, also stating he was unaware what the non-profit—Washington, D.C., based American Engagement Technologies, or AET—had been doing.[89]

TITLE: Herbert M. Allison
Herbert Monroe Allison, Jr. (August 2, 1943 – July 14, 2013) was an American businessman who oversaw the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Stability from 2009 to 2010.[1] His previous positions included president and CEO of Fannie Mae, a post to which he was appointed in September 2008, after Fannie was placed into conservatorship. Prior to that, Allison was chairman, president and chief executive officer of TIAA from 2002 until his retirement in 2008.[2][3]
Herbert Allison was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to Herbert M. Allison, Sr., an FBI agent, and Mary Boardman Allison. He grew up in Garden City, New York, and earned a B.A. in philosophy from Yale University in 1965.[4]
Following college, he volunteered for service as an officer in the United States Navy.[4] Following commission as an ensign, Allison served on two ships: the destroyer USS Arnold J. Isbell (DD-869) and amphibious command ship USS Taconic (LCC-17). After promotion to lieutenant, he then served a tour in-country in South Vietnam at the Coastal Surveillance Center, Nha Trang, where he was awarded the Navy Commendation Medal with Combat "V" for performance during Operation Market Time. 
Upon completion of naval service in 1969, Allison received his M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business in 1971.[4]
Allison began his career at Merrill Lynch as an associate in investment banking and served variously as treasurer, director of human resources, chief financial officer, executive vice president, president, chief operating officer and as a member of the board during his 28 years there.[3] While at Merrill Lynch, he worked in New York, London, Paris, and Tehran.[5]
After the stock market crash of 1987, Allison revised the bonus structure at Merrill Lynch, adding compensation based on company performance to a plan that was previously based on individual performance alone.[6] "Herbies," as the options became known, were controversial at first but ended up being extremely successful both for the company and the individuals involved.[7]
In 1998, Allison played an instrumental role in preventing the collapse of Long Term Capital Management, a hedge fund whose rapid downturn in September of that year threatened the stability of the financial system. Allison proposed the solution that ultimately was adopted by fourteen Wall Street institutions. The participating institutions were all paid back.[8]
After leaving Merrill Lynch in mid-1999, he served as National Finance Chair for U.S. Senator John McCain's first Presidential Campaign.[9]
From 2000 to 2002, Allison was president and chief executive officer of the Alliance for Lifelong Learning, Inc., which offered online, college-level courses to adults.[3]
In 2002, Allison was named chairman, president, and chief executive officer of TIAA, a Fortune 100 financial services organization that is the leading retirement provider for people who work in the academic, research, medical, and cultural fields. During his tenure, assets under management at the firm increased from $264 billion to over $435 billion.[10] The company underwent significant change under his leadership, broadening its product lines beyond pensions to include financial services, life insurance, college savings plans, mutual funds, IRAs, and other offerings. The company also re-focused on customer service, adding offices closer to campuses, for example. Allison retired from TIAA in 2008, and was succeeded by Roger W. Ferguson, Jr..[11]
Allison resigned as assistant secretary for financial stability in September 2010. Timothy Massad, who had been chief counsel to the Office of Financial Stability, succeeded him.[12]
Allison was a member of several boards and advisory councils, including Time Warner, Yale School of Management, Stanford Graduate School of Business, and the International Advisory Committee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. From 2003 to 2005 he was a director of the New York Stock Exchange.[2][3]
Allison died on July 14, 2013, at his home in Westport, Connecticut of a possible heart attack. He was 69.[13]

TITLE: Charles Simonyi
Charles Simonyi (/sɪˈmoʊni/; Hungarian: Simonyi Károly, pronounced [ˈʃimoɲi ˈkaːroj]; born September 10, 1948) is a Hungarian-born American software architect. He started and led Microsoft's applications group, where he built the first versions of Microsoft Office suite of applications.[2] He founded and led Intentional Software (acquired by Microsoft in 2017),[2] with the aim of developing and marketing his concept of intentional programming.[3][4][5] In April 2007, aboard Soyuz TMA-10, he became the fifth space tourist and the second Hungarian in space. In March 2009, aboard Soyuz TMA-14, he made a second trip to the International Space Station. His estimated net worth is US$3.3 billion.[1][6]
Simonyi was born in Budapest, Hungary. His father, Károly Simonyi, was a Kossuth Prize-winning professor of electrical engineering[7] at the Technical University of Budapest, and created the first Hungarian nuclear particle accelerator.[8] While in secondary school he worked part-time as a night watchman at a computer laboratory in early 1960's, overseeing a large Soviet Ural II[9] mainframe. He took an interest in computing[10] and learned to program from one of the laboratory's engineers. By the time he left school, he had learned to develop compilers and sold one of these to a government department. He presented a demonstration of his compiler to the members of a Danish computer trade delegation.[10] In 2006 he said when he was young his dream was, "to get out of Hungary, go to the West and be free."[11]
At the age of 17, Simonyi left Hungary on a short-term visa but did not return.[2]  He was hired by Denmark's A/S Regnecentralen in 1966 where he worked with Per Brinch Hansen and Peter Kraft on the RC 4000 minicomputer's Real-time Control System,[12] and with Peter Naur on the GIER ALGOL compiler.[13] He subsequently moved from Denmark to the United States in 1968 to attend the University of California, Berkeley, where he earned his B.S. in Engineering Mathematics & Statistics in 1972 under Butler Lampson.[13] He has honorary doctorate degrees from the Juilliard School in New York and from the University of Pecs in Hungary.[6]
Simonyi was recruited to Xerox PARC[2] by Butler Lampson during its most productive period, working alongside luminaries such as Alan Kay, Butler Lampson, and Robert Metcalfe on the development of the Xerox Alto, one of the first personal computers. He and Lampson developed Bravo, the first WYSIWYG document preparation program, which became operational in 1974. During this time he received his Ph.D. in computer science from Stanford University in 1977 with a dissertation on a software project management technique he called meta-programming.[14] This approach sought to defeat Brooks' law by scaling programming through a formalization of communication among programmers. In the 1992 book Accidental Empires (.mw-parser-output cite.citation{font-style:inherit}.mw-parser-output .citation q{quotes:"\"""\"""'""'"}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-free a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-free a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/65/Lock-green.svg/9px-Lock-green.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .id-lock-registration a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-limited a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-registration a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/d/d6/Lock-gray-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-gray-alt-2.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .id-lock-subscription a,.mw-parser-output .citation .cs1-lock-subscription a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/a/aa/Lock-red-alt-2.svg/9px-Lock-red-alt-2.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration{color:#555}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription span,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration span{border-bottom:1px dotted;cursor:help}.mw-parser-output .cs1-ws-icon a{background:url("//upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/4/4c/Wikisource-logo.svg/12px-Wikisource-logo.svg.png")no-repeat;background-position:right .1em center}.mw-parser-output code.cs1-code{color:inherit;background:inherit;border:inherit;padding:inherit}.mw-parser-output .cs1-hidden-error{display:none;font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-visible-error{font-size:100%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-maint{display:none;color:#33aa33;margin-left:0.3em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-subscription,.mw-parser-output .cs1-registration,.mw-parser-output .cs1-format{font-size:95%}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-left,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-left{padding-left:0.2em}.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-right,.mw-parser-output .cs1-kern-wl-right{padding-right:0.2em}ISBN 0-88730-855-4), Robert X. Cringely gave this description:
Simonyi's dissertation was an attempt to describe a more efficient method of organizing programmers to write software... the metaprogrammer was the designer, decision maker, and communication controller in a software development group.... individual programmers were allowed to make no design decisions about the project. All they did was write the code as described by the metaprogrammer.... A programmer with a problem or a question would take it to the metaprogrammer, who could come up with an answer or transfer the question to another programmer...Simonyi remained at PARC until 1981.
Since 1997 Simonyi has been a member of the National Academy of Engineering and became a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2008.
Since 1998 Simonyi has served as member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton and was its Chairman in 2008.[15]
In 1981, at Metcalfe's suggestion, he visited Bill Gates at Microsoft who suggested Simonyi start an applications group at Microsoft with the first application being a WYSIWYG word processor.[10] At Microsoft, Simonyi built the organization and applications of what became its most profitable products, Word and Excel, as well as Excel's predecessor Multiplan. For the applications, Simonyi pursued a strategy called the "revenue bomb", whereby the product ran on a virtual machine that was ported to each platform. The resulting applications were highly portable, although Microsoft's focus and IBM's standardization on MS-DOS eventually made portability less important.[16] In a 2002 news item, The Age noted that Simonyi introduced the concept of metaprogramming at Microsoft, turning it into what people sometimes referred to as a software factory, but the metaprogramming concept "did not work out in practice."[17]
Simonyi introduced to Microsoft the techniques of object-oriented programming that he had learned at Xerox. He developed the Hungarian notation convention[18] for naming variables. These standards were originally part of his doctoral thesis.[18] The Hungarian notation has been widely used inside Microsoft.[19]
Simonyi remained at Microsoft during its rapid rise in the software industry, becoming one of its highest-ranking developers. He left Microsoft in 2002 to co-found, with business partner Gregor Kiczales, a company called Intentional Software.[20] This company markets the intentional programming concepts Simonyi developed at Microsoft Research.[21] In this approach to software, a programmer first builds a language environment specific to a given problem domain (such as life insurance). Domain experts, aided by the programmer, then describe the program's intended behavior in a What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG)-like manner. An automated system uses the program description and the language to generate the final program. Successive changes are only done at the WYSIWYG level.[22]
In 2004, Simonyi received the Wharton Infosys Business Transformation Award for the industry-wide impact of his innovative work in information technology.[23]
On April 18, 2017, Intentional Software was acquired by Microsoft.[24]
Simonyi currently holds 11 patents:
US patent 6070007 
US patent 6665866 
US patent 2001037496 
WO patent 2004102380 
WO patent 2007053833 
WO patent 2007076269 
EP patent 1923782 
JP patent 2008140410 
US patent 2010146377 
JP patent 2010146583 
US patent 2010229092 
Simonyi has been an active philanthropist.
He has funded the establishment of three professorships:
In 2003 he founded the Charles and Lisa Simonyi Fund for Arts and Sciences, a nonprofit organization based in Seattle. The foundation provides grants to outstanding organization in art, sciences and education.[6][15] Grant recipients have included the Seattle Symphony ($10 million), and the Seattle Public Library ($3 million), the Metropolitan Opera, the Juilliard School and the Vera C. Rubin Observatory, which will host the Simonyi Survey Telescope.[25] The $100 million foundation closed in 2013.[26]
In January 2004, Simonyi created the Charles Simonyi Fund for Arts and Sciences, through which Simonyi supports Seattle-area arts, science, and educational programs.  As of May 2012, the Fund size was $75 million.
In February 2017, Simonyi and his wife Lisa gave the University of Washington Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) department $5 million towards the completion of a new building.[27]
Simonyi is married to Lisa Persdotter, the daughter of a Swedish millionaire. She is 32 years his junior. They were engaged on 8 August 2008 and were married on 22 November 2008 in a private ceremony in Gothenburg, Sweden, attended by their closest friends, among them Bill Gates.[28][29]
Simonyi gained United States citizenship in 1982.[11][30]
Simonyi dated Martha Stewart for 15 years until 2008.[31]
Simonyi spends six months per year[32] on his custom-built 233-foot (71 m) long super yacht named Skat.[32]
Simonyi's residence in Medina, Washington, "Villa Simonyi", is a modern house designed by architect Wendell Lovett, where Simonyi displays his collection of paintings by Roy Lichtenstein and Victor Vasarely.[33][34][35]
In early 2006, Simonyi expressed interest in becoming a space tourist and signed agreements with the space tourism company, Space Adventures, Ltd., for a ten-day mission to the International Space Station (ISS).
In August 2006, he passed a pre-qualification medical exam by the Russian Federal Space Agency, called the State Medical Commission (GMK). He started training at Star City in September 2006.[36]
He launched on April 7, 2007 (GMT),[37] on board Soyuz TMA-10. He shared a ride with two Russian cosmonauts to the International Space Station,[9] and returned aboard Soyuz TMA-9, landing on April 21, 2007.
Upon arrival to the ISS on April 9, 2007 Simonyi said, "It is amazing how it appears from the blackness of the sky. It was very, very dramatic. It was like a big stage set, a fantastic production of some incredible opera or modern play. That's what I was referring to when I said I was blown away."[38]
Simonyi's expected return on April 20, 2007 was delayed by one day due to 'boggy ground'. He returned to Earth on April 21, 2007 along with an American astronaut and a Russian cosmonaut.[39]
In October 2008, he booked for a second trip to the ISS through Space Adventures on board Soyuz TMA-14.[40] On March 26, 2009 he returned to space aboard Soyuz TMA-14.[41] He returned to Earth on board Soyuz TMA-13.  Along with Soyuz Commander Yuri Lonchakov and Michael Fincke, Simonyi landed in Kazakhstan on April 8, 2009.[42]
Simonyi became the second Hungarian astronaut and the fifth space tourist , the only one in  history, who went twice to space as a space tourist who paid his own way on spaceflights. Earlier, the Hungarians were the seventh nation to be represented in the space, in 1980, by Bertalan Farkas's spaceflight, 27 years before Simonyi's first one, in 2007. The next Hungarian astronaut will follow Simonyi to the International Space Station by 2025.[43]
Charles Simonyi is a licensed amateur radio operator with the call sign KE7KDP, and planned to contact a number of schools while on his flight on the International Space Station using amateur radio for the communication with those schools. On April 11, 2007 the American Radio Relay League reported that Simonyi was already making ham radio contacts from space.[44]
One of the schools Simonyi contacted was Cedar Point Elementary in Bristow, Virginia. A telebridge conversation was held on Tuesday, April 17, 2007. On board with him were Oleg Kotov and Fyodor Yurchikhin.[45][citation needed] On March 30, 2009 he held a phone conversation with students at the Girls' Middle School in Mountain View, California, United States in which he said that one of the most surprising things about traveling to space was that upon returning to earth the air feels very thick, very heavy, like "breathing Pepto-Bismol." He also stated that talking with the students from the school "made his day."
Simonyi used his Hungarian call sign HA5SIK[46] when he contacted 25 radio amateurs from Hungary in a record attempt on April 12. He contacted former and current students of Tivadar Puskás Polytechnic, Budapest on April 13.[46]
Simonyi supports The Museum of Flight in Seattle, funding the Space Gallery housing the NASA Shuttle Trainer and many space artifacts.
Simonyi was portrayed by actor Brian Lester in the TV film Pirates of Silicon Valley.[47]

TITLE: Aaron Swartz
Aaron Hillel Swartz (November 8, 1986 – January 11, 2013) was an American computer programmer, entrepreneur, writer, political organizer, and Internet hacktivist. He was involved in the development of the web feed format RSS,[3] the Markdown publishing format,[4] the organization Creative Commons,[5] and the website framework web.py,[6] and was a co-founder of the social news site Reddit. He was given the title of co-founder by Y Combinator owner Paul Graham after the formation of Not a Bug, Inc. (a merger of Swartz's project Infogami and Reddit, a company run by Alexis Ohanian and Steve Huffman).
Swartz's work also focused on civic awareness and activism.[7][8] He helped launch the Progressive Change Campaign Committee in 2009 to learn more about effective online activism. In 2010, he became a research fellow at Harvard University's Safra Research Lab on Institutional Corruption, directed by Lawrence Lessig.[9][10] He founded the online group Demand Progress, known for its campaign against the Stop Online Piracy Act.
In 2011, Swartz was arrested by Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) police on state breaking-and-entering charges, after connecting a computer to the MIT network in an unmarked and unlocked closet, and setting it to download academic journal articles systematically from JSTOR using a guest user account issued to him by MIT.[11][12] Federal prosecutors later charged him with two counts of wire fraud and eleven violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act,[13] carrying a cumulative maximum penalty of $1 million in fines, 35 years in prison, asset forfeiture, restitution, and supervised release.[14]
Swartz declined a plea bargain under which he would have served six months in federal prison. Two days after the prosecution rejected a counter-offer by Swartz, he was found dead in his Brooklyn apartment, where he had hanged himself.[15][16]
In 2013, Swartz was inducted posthumously into the Internet Hall of Fame.[17]
Swartz was born in Highland Park, Illinois[2][18] (a suburb of Chicago), the eldest son of Jewish parents Susan and Robert Swartz and brother of Noah and Benjamin.[1][19] His father had founded the software firm Mark Williams Company. Swartz immersed himself in the study of computers, programming, the Internet, and Internet culture.[20] He attended North Shore Country Day School, a small private school near Chicago, until 9th grade.[21] Swartz left high school in the 10th grade, and enrolled in courses at Lake Forest College.[22][23]
In 1999, when he was 13 years old he created the website Theinfo.org, a collaborative online library.[24] Theinfo.org made Swartz the winner of the ArsDigita Prize, given to young people who create "useful, educational, and collaborative" noncommercial websites.[1][25][26] At age 14, he became a member of the working group that authored the RSS 1.0 web syndication specification.
Swartz attended Stanford University, but dropped out after his first year.[27]
During Swartz's first year at Stanford, he applied to Y Combinator's very first Summer Founders Program, proposing to work on a startup called Infogami, designed as a flexible content management system to allow the creation of rich and visually interesting websites[28] or a form of wiki for structured data. After working on Infogami with co-founder Simon Carstensen over the summer of 2005, Aaron opted not to return to Stanford, choosing instead to continue to develop and seek funding for Infogami.[28]
As part of his work on Infogami, Swartz created the web.py web application framework because he was unhappy with other available systems in the Python programming language. In early fall of 2005, Swartz worked with his fellow co-founders of another nascent Y-Combinator firm Reddit, to rewrite Reddit's Lisp codebase using Python and web.py. Although Infogami's platform was abandoned after Not a Bug was acquired, Infogami's software was used to support the Internet Archive's Open Library project and the web.py web framework was used as basis for many other projects by Swartz and many others.[6]
When Infogami failed to find further funding, Y-Combinator organizers suggested that Infogami merge with Reddit,[29][30] which it did in November 2005, resulting in the formation of a new firm, Not a Bug, devoted to promoting both products.[29][31] As a result of this merger, Swartz was given the title of co-founder of Reddit. Although both projects initially struggled to gain traction, Reddit began to make large gains in popularity in 2005 and 2006.
In October 2006, based largely on the success of Reddit, Not a Bug was acquired by Condé Nast Publications, the owner of Wired magazine.[20][32] Swartz moved with his company to San Francisco to work on Wired.[20] Swartz found office life uncongenial, and he ultimately left the company.[33] In September 2007, Swartz joined with Infogami co-founder Simon Carstensen to launch a new firm, Jottit, in another attempt to create another markdown driven content management system in Python.[34]
In 2008, Swartz founded Watchdog.net, "the good government site with teeth," to aggregate and visualize data about politicians.[35][36] In the same year, he wrote a widely circulated Guerilla Open Access Manifesto.[37][38][39][40] On December 27, 2010, Swartz filed a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request to learn about the treatment of Chelsea Manning, alleged source for WikiLeaks.[41][42]
In 2008, Swartz downloaded about 2.7 million federal court documents stored in the PACER (Public Access to Court Electronic Records) database managed by the Administrative Office of the United States Courts.[43]
The Huffington Post characterized his actions this way: "Swartz downloaded public court documents from the PACER system in an effort to make them available outside of the expensive service. The move drew the attention of the FBI, which ultimately decided not to press charges as the documents were, in fact, public."[44]
PACER was charging 8 cents per page for information that Carl Malamud, who founded the nonprofit group Public.Resource.Org, contended should be free, because federal documents are not covered by copyright.[45][46] The fees were "plowed back to the courts to finance technology, but the system [ran] a budget surplus of some $150 million, according to court reports," reported The New York Times.[45] PACER used technology that was "designed in the bygone days of screechy telephone modems ... putting the nation's legal system behind a wall of cash and kludge."[45] Malamud appealed to fellow activists, urging them to visit one of 17 libraries conducting a free trial of the PACER system, download court documents, and send them to him for public distribution.[45]
After reading Malamud's call for action,[45] Swartz used a Perl computer script running on Amazon cloud servers to download the documents, using credentials belonging to a Sacramento library.[43] From September 4 to 20, 2008, it accessed documents and uploaded them to a cloud computing service.[46] He released the documents to Malamud's organization.[46]
On September 29, 2008,[45] the GPO suspended the free trial, "pending an evaluation" of the program.[45][46] Swartz's actions were subsequently investigated by the FBI.[45][46] The case was closed after two months with no charges filed.[46] Swartz learned the details of the investigation as a result of filing a FOIA request with the FBI and described their response as the "usual mess of confusions that shows the FBI's lack of sense of humor."[46] PACER still charges per page, but customers using Firefox have the option of saving the documents for free public access with a plug-in called RECAP.[47]

At a 2013 memorial for Swartz, Malamud recalled their work with PACER. They brought millions of U.S. District Court records out from behind PACER's "pay wall", he said, and found them full of privacy violations, including medical records and the names of minor children and confidential informants..mw-parser-output .templatequote{overflow:hidden;margin:1em 0;padding:0 40px}.mw-parser-output .templatequote .templatequotecite{line-height:1.5em;text-align:left;padding-left:1.6em;margin-top:0}We sent our results to the Chief Judges of 31 District Courts ... They redacted those documents and they yelled at the lawyers that filed them ... The Judicial Conference changed their privacy rules. ... [To] the bureaucrats who ran the Administrative Office of the United States Courts ... we were thieves that took $1.6 million of their property.
So they called the FBI ... [The FBI] found nothing wrong ...[48]Malamud penned a more detailed account of his collaboration with Swartz on the Pacer project in an essay that appears on his website.[49]
Writing in Ars Technica, Timothy Lee,[50] who later made use of the documents obtained by Swartz as a co-creator of RECAP, offered some insight into discrepancies in reporting on just how much data Swartz had downloaded: "In a back-of-the-envelope calculation a few days before the offsite crawl was shut down, Swartz guessed he got around 25 percent of the documents in PACER. The New York Times similarly reported Swartz had downloaded "an estimated 20 percent of the entire database". Based on the facts that Swartz downloaded 2.7 million documents while PACER, at the time, contained 500 million, Lee concluded that Swartz downloaded less than one percent of the database.[43]
In 2009, wanting to learn about effective activism, Swartz helped launch the Progressive Change Campaign Committee.[51] He wrote on his blog, "I spend my days experimenting with new ways to get progressive policies enacted and progressive politicians elected."[52] Swartz led the first activism event of his career with the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, delivering thousands of "Honor Kennedy" petition signatures to Massachusetts legislators asking them to fulfill former Senator Ted Kennedy's last wish by appointing a senator to vote for health care reform.[53]
In 2010,[54] Swartz co-founded Demand Progress,[55] a political advocacy group that organizes people online to "take action by contacting Congress and other leaders, funding pressure tactics, and spreading the word" about civil liberties, government reform, and other issues.[56]
During academic year 2010–11, Swartz conducted research studies on political corruption as a Lab Fellow in Harvard University's Edmond J. Safra Research Lab on Institutional Corruption.[9][10]
Author Cory Doctorow, in his novel Homeland, "drew on advice from Swartz in setting out how his protagonist could use the information now available about voters to create a grass-roots anti-establishment political campaign."[57] In an afterword to the novel, Swartz wrote, "these political hacktivist tools can be used by anyone motivated and talented enough.... Now it's up to you to change the system. ... Let me know if I can help."[57]
Swartz was involved in the campaign to prevent passage of the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), which sought to combat Internet copyright violations but was criticized on the basis that it would have made it easier for the U.S. government to shut down web sites accused of violating copyright and would have placed intolerable burdens on Internet providers.[58] Following the defeat of the bill, Swartz was the keynote speaker at the F2C:Freedom to Connect 2012 event in Washington, D.C., on May 21, 2012. His speech was titled "How We Stopped SOPA" and he informed the audience:
This bill ... shut down whole websites. Essentially, it stopped Americans from communicating entirely with certain groups....
I called all my friends, and we stayed up all night setting up a website for this new group, Demand Progress, with an online petition opposing this noxious bill.... We [got] ... 300,000 signers.... We met with the staff of members of Congress and pleaded with them.... And then it passed unanimously....
And then, suddenly, the process stopped. Senator Ron Wyden ... put a hold on the bill.[59][60]
He added, "We won this fight because everyone made themselves the hero of their own story. Everyone took it as their job to save this crucial freedom."[59][60] He was referring to a series of protests against the bill by numerous websites that was described by the Electronic Frontier Foundation as the biggest in Internet history, with over 115,000 sites altering their webpages.[61] Swartz also presented on this topic at an event organized by ThoughtWorks.[62]
Swartz participated in Wikipedia from August 2003.[63] In 2006, he ran unsuccessfully for the Wikimedia Foundation's Board of Trustees.[64]
In 2006, Swartz wrote an analysis of how Wikipedia articles are written, and concluded that the bulk of the actual content comes from tens of thousands of occasional contributors, or "outsiders", each of whom made few other contributions to the site, while a core group of 500 to 1,000 regular editors tend to correct spelling and other formatting errors.[65] According to Swartz: "the formatters aid the contributors, not the other way around."[65][66] His conclusions, based on the analysis of edit histories of several randomly selected articles, contradicted the opinion of Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, who believed the core group of regular editors were providing most of the content while thousands of others contributed to formatting issues. Swartz came to his conclusions by counting the total number of characters added by an editor to a particular article, while Wales counted the total number of edits.[65]
According to state and federal authorities, Swartz used JSTOR, a digital repository,[67] to download a large number[ii] of academic journal articles through MIT's computer network over the course of a few weeks in late 2010 and early 2011. At the time, Swartz was a research fellow at Harvard University, which provided him with a JSTOR account.[13] Visitors to MIT's "open campus" were authorized to access JSTOR through its network.[68]
The authorities said Swartz downloaded the documents through a laptop connected to a networking switch in a controlled-access wiring closet at MIT.[12][13][69][70][71] The door to the closet was kept unlocked, according to press reports.[68][72][73]
When discovered, a video camera was placed in the room to film Swartz and his computer was left untouched. Once a video of Swartz was recorded, the download was stopped and he was identified. Rather than pursue a civil lawsuit against him, in June 2011 they reached a settlement wherein he surrendered the downloaded data.[74][75]
On September 25, 2010, the IP address 18.55.6.215, part of the MIT network, began sending hundreds of PDF download requests per minute and was affecting the performance of the entire JSTOR site.[76] This prompted a block of the IP address. In the morning, another IP address, also from within the MIT network, began sending JSTOR more PDF download requests, resulting in a temporary full block on the firewall level of all MIT servers in the entire 18.0.0.0/8 range. An email was then sent to MIT, describing the situation:
From an email sent on September 29, 2010, one JSTOR employee wrote to MIT:
note that this was an extreme case.  We typically suspend just one individual IP at a time and do that relatively infrequently (perhaps 6 on a busy day, from 7000+ institutional subscribers).  In this case, we saw a performance hit on the live site, which I have only seen about 3 or 4 times in my 5 years here.
The pattern used was to create a new session for each PDF download or every few, which was terribly efficient, but not terribly subtle.  In the end, we saw over 200K sessions in one hour's time during the peak.On July 30, 2013, JSTOR released 300 partially redacted documents, which had been provided as incriminating evidence against Swartz. These documents were originally sent to the United States Attorney's Office in response to subpoenas in the case United States v. Aaron Swartz.[78]
(The following images are all excerpts from the 3,461-page PDF document.)
"Root Cause Analysis" Report (side 1), showing a descriptive timeline of events from September 25, 2010, until December 26, 2010.[79]
"Root Cause Analysis" Report (side 2), showing JSTOR response and incident resolution procedures.[80]
Email sent from JSTOR to Stephan, Heymann (USAMA), estimating 3.5 million PDF files had been downloaded.[81]
Email describing PDF download activity snapshots (see next images in gallery)[82]
Describes PDF download activity, from JSTOR's databases to MIT servers, between November 1 and December 27.[83]
PDF activity, from JSTOR to MIT, between January 1 to 15.[84]
On the night of January 6, 2011, Swartz was arrested near the Harvard campus by MIT police and a United States Secret Service agent. He was arraigned in Cambridge District Court on two state charges of breaking and entering with intent to commit a felony.[11][12][71][85][86]
On July 11, 2011, Swartz was indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of wire fraud, computer fraud, unlawfully obtaining information from a protected computer, and recklessly damaging a protected computer.[13][87]
On November 17, 2011, Swartz was indicted by a Middlesex County Superior Court grand jury on state charges of breaking and entering with intent, grand larceny, and unauthorized access to a computer network.[88][89] On December 16, 2011, state prosecutors filed a notice that they were dropping the two original charges;[12] the charges listed in the November 17, 2011, indictment were dropped on March 8, 2012.[90] According to a spokesperson for the Middlesex County prosecutor, the state charges were dropped to permit a federal prosecution headed by Stephen P. Heymann and supported by evidence provided by Secret Service agent Michael S. Pickett[91] to proceed unimpeded.[90]
On September 12, 2012, federal prosecutors filed a superseding indictment adding nine more felony counts, which increased Swartz's maximum criminal exposure to 50 years of imprisonment and $1 million in fines.[13][92][93] During plea negotiations with Swartz's attorneys, the prosecutors offered to recommend a sentence of six months in a low-security prison, if Swartz would plead guilty to 13 federal crimes. Swartz and his lead attorney rejected that deal, opting instead for a trial in which prosecutors would have been forced to justify their pursuit of Swartz.[94][95]
The federal prosecution involved what was characterized by numerous critics (such as former Nixon White House counsel John Dean) as an "overcharging" 13-count indictment and "overzealous" prosecution for alleged computer crimes, brought by then U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts Carmen Ortiz.[96]
Swartz died of suicide on January 11, 2013.[97] After his death, federal prosecutors dropped the charges.[98][99] On December 4, 2013, due to a Freedom of Information Act suit by the investigations editor of Wired magazine, several documents related to the case were released by the Secret Service, including a video of Swartz entering the MIT network closet.[100]
On the evening of January 11, 2013, Swartz's girlfriend, Taren Stinebrickner-Kauffman, found him dead in his Brooklyn apartment.[68][101][102][103] A spokeswoman for New York's Medical Examiner reported that he had hanged himself.[102][103][104][105] No suicide note was found.[106] Swartz's family and his partner created a memorial website on which they issued a statement, saying: "He used his prodigious skills as a programmer and technologist not to enrich himself but to make the Internet and the world a fairer, better place."[19]
Days before Swartz's funeral, Lawrence Lessig eulogized his friend and sometime-client in an essay, Prosecutor as Bully. He decried the disproportionality of Swartz's prosecution and said, "The question this government needs to answer is why it was so necessary that Aaron Swartz be labeled a 'felon'. For in the 18 months of negotiations, that was what he was not willing to accept."[107] Cory Doctorow wrote, "Aaron had an unbeatable combination of political insight, technical skill, and intelligence about people and issues. I think he could have revolutionized American (and worldwide) politics. His legacy may still yet do so."[108]
Swartz's funeral services were held on January 15, 2013, at Central Avenue Synagogue in Highland Park, Illinois. Tim Berners-Lee, creator of the World Wide Web, delivered a eulogy.[109][110][111][112] The same day, The Wall Street Journal published a story based in part on an interview with Stinebrickner-Kauffman.[113] She told the Journal that Swartz lacked the money to pay for a trial and "it was too hard for him to ... make that part of his life go public" by asking for help. He was also distressed, she said, because two of his friends had just been subpoenaed and because he no longer believed that MIT would try to stop the prosecution.[113]
Several memorials followed soon afterward. On January 19, hundreds attended a memorial at the Cooper Union, speakers at which included Stinebrickner-Kauffman, open source advocate Doc Searls, Creative Commons' Glenn Otis Brown, journalist Quinn Norton, Roy Singham of ThoughtWorks, and David Segal of Demand Progress.[114][115][116] On January 24, there was a memorial at the Internet Archive with speakers including Stinebrickner-Kauffman, Alex Stamos, Brewster Kahle, and Carl Malamud.[117] On February 4, a memorial was held in the Cannon House Office Building on Capitol Hill;[118][119][120][121] speakers at this memorial included Senator Ron Wyden and Representatives Darrell Issa, Alan Grayson, and Jared Polis,[120][121] and other lawmakers in attendance included Senator Elizabeth Warren and Representatives Zoe Lofgren and Jan Schakowsky.[120][121] A memorial also took place on March 12 at the MIT Media Lab.[122]
Swartz's family recommended GiveWell for donations in his memory, an organization that Swartz admired, had collaborated with and was the sole beneficiary of his will.[123][124]
—Statement by family and partner of Aaron Swartz[125]
On January 12, 2013, Swartz's family and partner issued a statement criticizing the prosecutors and MIT.[125] Speaking at his son's funeral on January 15, Robert Swartz said, "Aaron was killed by the government, and MIT betrayed all of its basic principles."[126]
Tom Dolan, husband of U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts Carmen Ortiz, whose office prosecuted Swartz's case, replied with criticism of the Swartz family: "Truly incredible that in their own son's obit they blame others for his death and make no mention of the 6-month offer."[127] This comment triggered some criticism; Esquire writer Charlie Pierce replied, "the glibness with which her husband and her defenders toss off a 'mere' six months in federal prison, low-security or not, is a further indication that something is seriously out of whack with the way our prosecutors think these days."[128]
MIT maintains an open-campus policy along with an "open network."[73][129] Two days after Swartz's death, MIT President L. Rafael Reif commissioned professor Hal Abelson to lead an analysis of MIT's options and decisions relating to Swartz's "legal struggles."[130][131] To help guide the fact-finding stage of the review, MIT created a website where community members could suggest questions and issues for the review to address.[132][133]
Swartz's attorneys requested that all pretrial discovery documents be made public, a move which MIT opposed.[134] Swartz allies have criticized MIT for its opposition to releasing the evidence without redactions.[135] On July 26, 2013, the Abelson panel submitted a 182-page report to MIT president, L. Rafael Reif, who authorized its public release on July 30.[136][137][138] The panel reported that MIT had not supported charges against Swartz and cleared the institution of wrongdoing. However, its report also noted that despite MIT's advocacy for open access culture at the institutional level and beyond, the university never extended that support to Swartz. The report revealed, for example, that while MIT considered the possibility of issuing a public statement about its position on the case, such a statement never materialized.[139]
The Huffington Post reported that "Ortiz has faced significant backlash for pursuing the case against Swartz, including a petition to the White House to have her fired."[140] Other news outlets reported similarly.[141][142][143]
Reuters news agency called Swartz "an online icon" who "help[ed] to make a virtual mountain of information freely available to the public, including an estimated 19 million pages of federal court documents."[144] The Associated Press (AP) reported that Swartz's case "highlights society's uncertain, evolving view of how to treat people who break into computer systems and share data not to enrich themselves, but to make it available to others,"[58] and that JSTOR's lawyer, former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York Mary Jo White, had asked the lead prosecutor to drop the charges.[58]
As discussed by editor Hrag Vartanian in Hyperallergic, Brooklyn, New York, muralist BAMN ("By Any Means Necessary") created a mural of Swartz.[145] "Swartz was an amazing human being who fought tirelessly for our right to a free and open Internet," the artist explained. "He was much more than just the 'Reddit guy'."
Speaking on April 17, 2013, Yuval Noah Harari described Swartz as "the first martyr of the Freedom of Information movement."[146]
Aaron Swartz's legacy has been reported as strengthening the open access to scholarship movement. In Illinois, his home state, Swartz's influence led state university faculties to adopt policies in favor of open access.[147]
On January 13, 2013, members of Anonymous hacked two websites on the MIT domain, replacing them with tributes to Swartz that called on members of the Internet community to use his death as a rallying point for the open access movement. The banner included a list of demands for improvements in the U.S. copyright system, along with Swartz's Guerilla Open Access Manifesto.[148] On the night of January 18, 2013, MIT's e-mail system was taken offline for ten hours.[149] On January 22, e-mail sent to MIT was redirected by hackers Aush0k and TibitXimer to the Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology. All other traffic to MIT was redirected to a computer at Harvard University that was publishing a statement headed "R.I.P Aaron Swartz,"[150] with text from a 2009 posting by Swartz,[151] accompanied by a chiptune version of "The Star-Spangled Banner". MIT regained full control after about seven hours.[152] In the early hours of January 26, 2013, the U.S. Sentencing Commission website, USSC.gov, was hacked by Anonymous.[153][154] The home page was replaced with an embedded YouTube video, Anonymous Operation Last Resort. The video statement said Swartz "faced an impossible choice".[155][156] A hacker downloaded "hundreds of thousands" of scientific-journal articles from a Swiss publisher's website and republished them on the open Web in Swartz's honor a week before the first anniversary of his death.[157]
After Swartz's death, more than 50,000 people signed an online petition[158] to the White House calling for the removal of Ortiz, "for overreach in the case of Aaron Swartz."[159] A similar petition[160] was submitted calling for prosecutor Stephen Heymann's firing.[161][162] In January 2015, two years after Swartz's death, the White House declined both petitions.[163]
On August 3, 2013, Swartz was posthumously inducted into the Internet Hall of Fame.[17] There was a hackathon held in Swartz' memory around the date of his birthday in 2013.[164][165] Over the weekend of November 8–10, 2013, inspired by Swartz's work and life, a second annual hackathon was held in at least 16 cities around the world.[166][167][168] Preliminary topics worked on at the 2013 Aaron Swartz Hackathon[169] were privacy and software tools, transparency, activism, access, legal fixes, and a low-cost book scanner.[170] In January 2014, Lawrence Lessig led a walk across New Hampshire in honor of Swartz, rallying for campaign finance reform.[171][172]
In 2017 the Turkish-Dutch artist Ahmet Öğüt commemorated Swartz through a work entitled "Information Power to The People" and depicting his bust.[173]

A long-time supporter of open access, Swartz wrote in his Guerilla Open Access Manifesto:[39]The world's entire scientific ... heritage ... is increasingly being digitized and locked up by a handful of private corporations....
The Open Access Movement has fought valiantly to ensure that scientists do not sign their copyrights away but instead ensure their work is published on the Internet, under terms that allow anyone to access it.
Supporters of Swartz responded to news of his death with an effort called #PDFTribute[174] to promote Open Access.[175][176] On January 12, Eva Vivalt, a development economist at the World Bank, began posting her academic articles online using the hashtag #pdftribute as a tribute to Swartz.[176][177][178] Scholars posted links to their works.[179] The story of Aaron Swartz has exposed the topic of open access to scientific publications to wider audiences.[180][181] In the wake of Aaron Swartz, many institutions and personalities have campaigned for open access to scientific knowledge.[182] Swartz's death prompted calls for more open access to scholarly data (e.g., open science data).[183][184] The Think Computer Foundation and the Center for Information Technology Policy (CITP) at Princeton University announced scholarships awarded in memory of Aaron Swartz.[185] In 2013, Swartz was posthumously awarded the American Library Association's James Madison Award for being an "outspoken advocate for public participation in government and unrestricted access to peer-reviewed scholarly articles."[186][187] In March, the editor and editorial board of the Journal of Library Administration resigned en masse, citing a dispute with the journal's publisher, Routledge.[188] One board member wrote of a "crisis of conscience about publishing in a journal that was not open access" after the death of Aaron Swartz.[189][190] In 2002, Swartz had stated that when he died, he wanted all the contents of his hard drives made publicly available.[191][192] The "cOAlition S", a consortium launched by the European Research Council continues the fight of Aaron Swartz with the will to make available to all by 2020 all the scientific publications financed by the member states of this coalition.[193]

Several members of the U.S. House of Representatives – Republican Darrell Issa and Democrats Jared Polis and Zoe Lofgren – all on the House Judiciary Committee, have raised questions regarding the government's handling of the case. Calling the charges against him "ridiculous and trumped up," Polis said Swartz was a "martyr", whose death illustrated the need for Congress to limit the discretion of federal prosecutors.[194] Speaking at a memorial for Swartz on Capitol Hill, Issa saidUltimately, knowledge belongs to all the people of the world.... Aaron understood that.... Our copyright laws were created for the purpose of promoting useful works, not hiding them.Massachusetts Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren issued a statement saying "[Aaron's] advocacy for Internet freedom, social justice, and Wall Street reform demonstrated ... the power of his ideas ..."[195] In a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder,[196] Texas Republican Senator John Cornyn asked, "On what basis did the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts conclude that her office's conduct was 'appropriate'?" and "Was the prosecution of Mr. Swartz in any way retaliation for his exercise of his rights as a citizen under the Freedom of Information Act?"[197][198][199]
Issa, who chaired the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, announced that he would investigate the Justice Department's actions in prosecuting Swartz.[194] In a statement to The Huffington Post, he praised Swartz's work toward "open government and free access to the people." Issa's investigation has garnered some bipartisan support.[195]
On January 28, 2013, Issa and ranking committee member Elijah Cummings published a letter to U.S. Attorney General Holder, questioning why federal prosecutors had filed the superseding indictment.[93][200] On February 20, WBUR reported that Ortiz was expected to testify at an upcoming Oversight Committee hearing about her office's handling of the Swartz case.[201] On February 22, Associate Deputy Attorney General Steven Reich conducted a briefing for congressional staffers involved in the investigation.[202][203] They were told that Swartz's Guerilla Open Access Manifesto played a role in prosecutorial decision-making.[38][202][203] Congressional staffers left this briefing believing that prosecutors thought Swartz had to be convicted of a felony carrying at least a short prison sentence in order to justify having filed the case against him in the first place.[202][203]
Excoriating the Department of Justice as the "Department of Vengeance", Stinebrickner-Kauffman told the Guardian that the DOJ had erred in relying on Swartz's Guerilla Open Access Manifesto as an accurate indication of his beliefs by 2010. "He was no longer a single issue activist," she said. "He was into lots of things, from healthcare, to climate change to money in politics."[38]
On March 6, Holder testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee that the case was "a good use of prosecutorial discretion."[204] Stinebrickner-Kauffman issued a statement in reply, repeating and amplifying her claims of prosecutorial misconduct. Public documents, she wrote, reveal that prosecutor Stephen Heymann "instructed the Secret Service to seize and hold evidence without a warrant... lied to the judge about that fact in written briefs... [and] withheld exculpatory evidence... for over a year," violating his legal and ethical obligations to turn such evidence over to the defense.[205] On March 22, Senator Al Franken wrote Holder a letter expressing concerns, writing that "charging a young man like Mr. Swartz with federal offenses punishable by over 35 years of federal imprisonment seems remarkably aggressive – particularly when it appears that one of the principal aggrieved parties ... did not support a criminal prosecution."[206]
In 2013, Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.) introduced a bill, Aaron's Law (H.R. 2454, S. 1196[207]) to exclude terms of service violations from the 1986 Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and from the wire fraud statute.[208]
Lawrence Lessig wrote of the bill, "this is a critically important change.... The CFAA was the hook for the government's bullying.... This law would remove that hook. In a single line: no longer would it be a felony to breach a contract."[209] Professor Orin Kerr, a specialist in the nexus between computer law and criminal law, wrote that he had been arguing for precisely this sort of reform of the Act for years.[210] The ACLU, too, has called for reform of the CFAA to "remove the dangerously broad criminalization of online activity."[211] The EFF has mounted a campaign for these reforms.[212] Lessig's inaugural Chair lecture as Furman Professor of Law and Leadership was entitled Aaron's Laws: Law and Justice in a Digital Age; he dedicated the lecture to Swartz.[213][214][215][216]
The Aaron's Law bill stalled in committee. Brian Knappenberger alleges this was due to Oracle Corporation's financial interest in maintaining the status quo.[217]
The Fair Access to Science and Technology Research Act (FASTR) is a bill that would mandate earlier public release of taxpayer-funded research. FASTR has been described as "The Other Aaron's Law."[218]
Senator Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Senator John Cornyn (R-Tex.) introduced the Senate version, in 2013 and again in 2015, while the bill was introduced to the House by Reps. Zoe Lofgren (D-Calif.), Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) and Kevin Yoder (R-Kans.). Senator Wyden wrote of the bill, "the FASTR act provides that access to taxpayer funded research should never be hidden behind a paywall."[219]
While the legislation had not passed as of October 2015[update], it helped to prompt some motion toward more open access on the part of the US administration. Shortly after the bill's original introduction, the Office of Science and Technology Policy directed "each Federal agency with over $100 million in annual conduct of research and development expenditures to develop a plan to support increased public access to the results of research funded by the Federal Government."[220]
Swartz has been featured in various works of art and has posthumously received dedications from numerous artists. In 2013, Kenneth Goldsmith dedicated his "Printing out the Internet" exhibition to Swartz.[221][222] The fate of Aaron Swartz was also featured in conservative filmmaker Dinesh D'Souza's 2014 documentary America: Imagine the World Without Her, wherein D'Souza compares Swartz's prosecution to his own conviction for violating campaign finance laws, and alleges that both cases exemplify selective, overzealous prosecution.[223][224] There are also dedicated biographical films for Aaron:
On January 11, 2014, marking the first anniversary of his death, a preview was released of The Internet's Own Boy: The Story of Aaron Swartz,[225] a documentary about Swartz, the NSA and SOPA.[226][227] The film was officially released at the January 2014 Sundance Film Festival.[228] Democracy Now! covered the release of the documentary, as well as Swartz's life and legal case, in a sprawling interview with director Brian Knappenberger, Swartz's father, brother, and his attorney.[229] The documentary is released under a Creative Commons License;[230][231] it debuted in theaters and on-demand in June 2014.[232]
Mashable called the documentary "a powerful homage to Aaron Swartz". Its debut at Sundance received a standing ovation. Mashable printed, "With the help of experts, The Internet's Own Boy makes a clear argument: Swartz unjustly became a victim of the rights and freedoms for which he stood."[233] The Hollywood Reporter described it as a "heartbreaking" story of a "tech wunderkind persecuted by the US government", and a must-see "for anyone who knows enough to care about the way laws govern information transfer in the digital age".[234]
In October 2014, Killswitch, a film featuring Aaron Swartz, as well as Lawrence Lessig, Tim Wu, and Edward Snowden, received its world premiere at the Woodstock Film Festival, where it won the award for Best Editing. The film focuses on Swartz's role in advocating for internet freedoms.[235][236]
In February 2015, Killswitch was invited to screen at the Capitol Visitor's Center in Washington, D.C. by Congressman Alan Grayson. The event was held on the eve of the Federal Communications Commission's historic decision on Net Neutrality. Congressman Grayson, Lawrence Lessig, and Free Press CEO Craig Aaron spoke about Swartz and his fight on behalf of a free and open Internet at the event.[237][238]
Congressman Grayson states that Killswitch is "one of the most honest accounts of the battle to control the Internet – and access to information itself."[237] Richard von Busack of the Metro Silicon Valley writes of Killswitch, "Some of the most lapidary use of found footage this side of The Atomic Café".[235] Fred Swegles of the Orange County Register remarks, "Anyone who values unfettered access to online information is apt to be captivated by Killswitch, a gripping and fast-paced documentary."[236] Kathy Gill of GeekWire asserts that "Killswitch is much more than a dry recitation of technical history. Director Ali Akbarzadeh, producer Jeff Horn, and writer Chris Dollar created a human-centered story. A large part of that connection comes from Lessig and his relationship with Swartz."[239]
Patriot of the Web is an independent biographical film about Aaron Swartz, written and directed by Darius Burke. The film was released on September 15, 2019 onto YouTube [240] Actor Shawn Mcclintock plays Aaron Swartz. [241][242] The film had a limited video on demand release in December 2017 on Reelhouse[243] and in January 2018 on Pivotshare.[244]
Another biographical film about Swartz, Think Aaron, is being developed by HBO Films.[245]

TITLE: Hong Seok-hyun
Hong Seok-hyun (born October 20, 1949) is a noted figure in South Korean media industry. He is the chairman of JoongAng Holdings, Korea Peace Foundation and Korea Baduk Association. He is a brother-in law of Lee Kun-hee.
In 1994 he became the president and publisher of JoongAng Ilbo. Since then, he has led major innovations in South Korean newspaper industry, and completed comprehensive and all-round media portfolio with different media organizations.
As being recognized by a wide range of global network and partnership of the company, he served as the president of the World Association of Newspapers from 2002 to early 2005, and was the first person from Asia to hold the post. He was also a president of the ROK's Korea Association of Newspapers from 2003 to 2005.
He has been active in public service as well. From late 70s to early 80s, he worked in the World Bank and South Korean government service. Also, he served as the ambassador to the United States from February 2005 until his resignation in September 2005.
Hong graduated from Kyunggi High School in 1968. He received a bachelor's degree in engineering from Seoul National University (South Korea) in 1972, and a master's in industrial engineering from Stanford University (U.S.) in 1978. He went on to acquire a Ph.D. in economics from Stanford University (U.S.) in 1980.[1]
Since he became the president and publisher of JoongAng Ilbo in 1994, he has achieved major innovations and development of South Korean newspapers. He has presented new standards such as the induction of specialized journalists (1994), the publication of sectional newspapers (1994), the start of an online news service for the first time in Asia (1995) and the publication of a high-end Sunday newspaper (2007) etc. These were all firsts in South Korean press history and soon became new standards for the local industry. In 2009, JoongAng Ilbo changed its format from Broadsheet to Berliner, which was the first move among South Korean newspapers.
In 2000s, JoongAng Ilbo has expanded into a comprehensive and all-round media group, which is called JMnet(JoongAng Media Network). JMnet has achieved vertical integration from content production to content distribution by operating newspapers (JoongAng Ilbo, JoongAng Sunday, IS Ilgan Sports, Korea JoongAng daily, The Korea Daily), broadcasting channels (JTBC, JTBC2, JTBC3 Fox Sports, JTBC Golf), publishing, magazine and entertainment sectors (MegaBox). JMnet became the only media group that runs such a diverse portfolio in Korea. With over 2,500 employees, its vision is to become a global media group that represents an Asian voice and an Asian perspective.[2]
JMnet acquired Multiplex MegaBox in 2015 and acquired Bokwang Corporation in the following year. Bokwang Corporation was changed to Phoenix Hotel and Resorts since it had been acquired.
JMnet declared JoongAng Group for new beginnings in 2018.
During his career, he has been active in public service. He worked as an economist for the World Bank from 1977 to 1983. From 1983 to 1985, he served as principal assistant to the chief of staff to the president of Korea. He also worked as a researcher in Korea Development Institute from 1985 to 1986.
He was appointed to the ambassador to the United States from February 2005 until his resignation in September 2005.
As being recognized by a wide range of global network and partnership, he served as president of the World Association of Newspapers, a position to which he was elected in 2002 and re-elected in June 2004.
He also served as the first chairman of the newly launched the English-Speaking Union Korea in 2004. He is a member of the Trilateral Commission; the International Advisory Council for the Center on Northeast Asian Policy Studies at the Brookings Institution; the Advisory Council for the Asian Studies Center of the Heritage Foundation; and the Advisory Council of the Korea Society. He also serves on the board of the Asia Society.[citation needed]
Hong has contributed to strengthen ties between scholars and journalists as annually hosting J-Global Forum and Northeast Asia Trilateral Forum. 
He is the president of the organizing committee of the World Culture Open(WCO), a glocal cultural network of people creatively collaborating for cultural exchange, space and support worldwide.
As an effort to restore traditional culture in South Korea, he founded Hwa Dong Cultural Foundation and has been staging related events and activities around the world. In 2011, Hwa Dong Cultural Foundation and The Prince's Charities Foundation in UK completed the project of filming “The Arch of Enlightenment,” a documentary of restoration of Gwanghwamun Gate. The film was premiered at London's Curzon Mayfair Cinema on 31 January 2011 with about 300 guests including Prince Charles, and later aired on Sky Art 2.
As the founder of Yumin Cultural Foundation, he also has supported various efforts to promote creative works in the fields of journalism, science, culture and society.
Hong Seok-hyun's father is Hong Jin-ki, a former minister of justice, chief executive officer of Joongang Broadcasting Station and president of Joongang Ilbo; as well as an identified Chinilpa.
Hong Seok-hyun is the brother-in-law of Lee Kun-hee, the current chairman of Samsung Group. Lee Kun-hee is married to Hong's sister Hong Ra-hee.

TITLE: Richard Rodriguez
Richard Rodriguez (born July 31, 1944) is an American writer who became famous as the author of Hunger of Memory: The Education of Richard Rodriguez (1982), a narrative about his intellectual development.
He was born on July 31, 1944, into a Mexican immigrant family in San Francisco, California. Rodriguez spoke Spanish until he went to a Catholic school at 6. As a youth in Sacramento, California, he delivered newspapers and worked as a gardener. He graduated from Sacramento's Christian Brothers High School.
Rodriguez received a B.A. from Stanford University, an M.A. from Columbia University, was a Ph.D. candidate in English Renaissance literature at the University of California, Berkeley, and attended the Warburg Institute in London on a Fulbright fellowship.[1]  A noted prose stylist, Rodriguez has worked as a teacher, international journalist, and educational consultant, and he has appeared regularly on the Public Broadcasting Service show, NewsHour.[4] Rodriguez's visual essays, Richard Rodriguez Essays, on "The News Hour with Jim Lehrer" earned Rodriguez a Peabody Award in 1997. Rodriguez’s books include Hunger of Memory: The Education of Richard Rodriguez (1982), a collection of autobiographical essays; Mexico's Children (1990); Days of Obligation: An Argument With My Mexican Father (1992), which was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize; Brown: The Last Discovery of America (2002); and Darling: A Spiritual Autobiography (2013). Rodriguez's works have also been published in Harper's Magazine, Mother Jones, and Time.[5]
Instead of pursuing a career in academia, Rodriguez suddenly decided to write freelance and take other temporary jobs. Rodriguez worked as a contributing editor to newspapers and magazines, including Harpers and the Los Angeles Times.[6] His first book, Hunger of Memory: The Education of Richard Rodriguez, was published in 1982. It was an account of his journey from being a "socially disadvantaged child" to becoming a fully assimilated American, from the Spanish-speaking world of his family to the wider, presumably freer, public world of English. However, the journey was not without costs: his American identity was achieved only after a painful separation from his past, his family, and his culture. "Americans like to talk about the importance of family values," said Rodriguez. "But America isn't a country of family values; Mexico is a country of family values. This is a country of people who leave home."
While the book received widespread critical acclaim and won several literary awards, it also stirred resentment because of Rodriguez's strong stands against bilingual education and affirmative action. Some Mexican Americans called him pocho, Americanized Mexican, accusing him of betraying himself and his people. Others called him a "coconut," brown on the outside, but white on the inside. He calls himself "a comic victim of two cultures."[7]
Rodriguez's most recent book, Darling: A Spiritual Autobiography (2013), explores the important symbolism of the desert in Judaism, Islam and Christianity. In an interview before the book came out, Rodriguez reported that he was "interested in the fact that three great monotheistic religions were experienced within this ecology."[8] A sample of the project appeared in Harper's Magazine (January 2008). In this essay, "The God of the Desert: Jerusalem and the Ecology of Monotheism,"[9] Rodriguez portrays the desert as a paradoxical temple, its emptiness the requisite for God's elusive presence.
Rodriguez is gay.[7]  He came out in his book of essays Days of Obligation.[10]


TITLE: Jane Kim
Jane Jungyon Kim (born July 9, 1977) is an American civil rights attorney and politician, and the first Korean American elected official in San Francisco. She represented San Francisco's District 6 on the Board of Supervisors between 2011 and 2019.[1] She is currently a member of the San Francisco's Democratic County Central Committee and was the top vote getter in CA AD17.[2]
Prior to her election to the Board of Supervisors, Kim served as member and then president of the San Francisco Board of Education.[1] In 2016, she ran for the 11th California State Senate District, but lost to Scott Wiener in a run-off election after finishing first place by a small margin in the primary. She was a candidate for mayor in the 2018 San Francisco mayoral election, finishing third with 24.03% of the first-round vote.[3]
Jane Jungyon Kim[4] was born in New York City on July 9, 1977,[5] to South Korean parents who immigrated to the U.S. from Seoul in 1971.[1]
Kim grew up learning both the English and Korean languages. Her mother owned a store selling women's clothing.[6] Her father joined Kiss Products, a global cosmetics company, while she was in college. [7]  At age 14, Kim began studying taekwondo, eventually earning a black belt. She was involved with community activism, especially the issue of homelessness.[1] While attending Spence School, a New York prep school,[8] she stopped reciting the Pledge of Allegiance in her teens—she rejected the Pledge words "with liberty and justice for all" as they did not apply to LGBT. people.[9]
Kim graduated from Stanford University with a bachelor's degree in Political Science and Asian American Studies.[1] She settled in San Francisco and enrolled in the UC Berkeley School of Law. Kim earned a law degree, and was admitted to the State Bar of California in December 2009.[4]
After finishing her Stanford studies, Kim worked as a Fellow at Greenlining Institute in San Francisco. She interviewed with Reverend Norman Fong, the leader of the Chinatown Community Development Center (CCDC) in 2000. Fong was doubtful she would fit the position of youth organizer as she did not speak any Chinese.[10] However, Kim successfully led a youth volunteer and leadership program in San Francisco Chinatown.[11] Through her community organization efforts, she met power broker Rose Pak.[10]
In 2005 Kim was elected president of the San Francisco People's Organization (SFPO), made up of many notable San Francisco activists and organizers.[1] SFPO worked against several California ballot propositions in November 2005, and assisted with health care and affordable housing measures for San Franciscans through 2006.[12]
In 2003 while campaigning for Green Party mayoral candidate Matt Gonzalez, Kim felt too few female Asian Americans were engaged in San Francisco politics. In 2004, she decided to run for the San Francisco Board of Education. In a field of 12 candidates seeking four seats, Kim came in seventh place; her bid failed in part because she was a member of the minority Green Party and did not have the backing of the Democratic Party.[10] In 2006, Kim mounted a stronger campaign. She was endorsed by various politicians, unions, community groups and media, and she won, gathering the most votes of 15 candidates seeking three seats.[10] In 2007 when she was sworn in she became the first Korean American elected official in San Francisco.[13] Kim's election was part of a more liberal shift in the school board. Fellow Green Mark Sanchez served as board president and progressive Kim-Shree Maufas was also elected.[14][15]
In 2006, the school board took up the issue of whether to continue the 90-year-old Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps (JROTC) program in San Francisco high schools. The board voted to phase out the JROTC program over two years. In December 2006, previous to taking office, Kim learned about a death threat against her that was sent from a JROTC cadet to his friend on Facebook. The cadet had also used MySpace to threaten a high school girl who argued prominently against JROTC.[16] Kim spoke to the cadet herself and reported that he sincerely regretted his actions.[17] Kim took the position that the JROTC program should not be hosted by San Francisco as long as the U.S. military continued its "don't ask, don't tell" policy.[18] In June 2008 Kim and Norman Yee submitted a proposal to accept JROTC programs as optional after-school activities, without giving students physical education (P.E.) credit toward graduation.[19] In October, Kim proposed an alternative program called Student Emergency Response Volunteers (SERV) that would train students in emergency preparedness and disaster relief.[20] The bid to remove or replace JROTC failed in a 3–4 vote held in May 2009.[21][22]
In March 2008, Kim and Sanchez traveled to Israel as members of the U.S. Green Party to investigate whether the party should continue to support the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions program targeting Israel for its occupation of Palestine. Kim complimented a youth village program near Haifa, recommending its director be brought to San Francisco to help train educators.[23]
Kim joined the Democratic Party in late 2008 after Barack Obama was elected president.[1][24] In 2010, she was elected president of the Board of Education.[13] As board president, Kim had to negotiate statewide budget cuts that resulted in a two-year shortfall of $113 million for San Francisco schools. She pushed for an ethnic studies program that had been under development for three years. Kim said that with a budget of around $400 million, there should be some "flexibility to find funding" for the program.[25]
Kim had lived in various neighborhoods of San Francisco, including Polk Gulch and the Sunset.[26] She moved to District 6 in 2009 and subsequently ran in the San Francisco Board of Supervisors election to fill the seat being vacated by Supervisor Chris Daly.[27] District 6 includes Union Square, Tenderloin, Civic Center, Mid-Market, Cathedral Hill, South of Market, South Beach, Mission Bay, Treasure Island, Yerba Buena Island, and Alcatraz. Kim announced her candidacy in January 2010,[28] then she kicked off her campaign in June, at a party attended by former mayors Art Agnos and Willie Brown, as well as the President of the Board of Supervisors, David Chiu, who knew Kim from having shared housing for more than two years.[29][30] Kim ran against several candidates, including Theresa Sparks, who was endorsed by mayor Gavin Newsom, and liberal Debra Walker, who was endorsed by the Democratic Party and most labor unions.[10] When Brown contributed $5000 to the Kim campaign, some of her progressive supporters questioned whether Kim was being supported by a political machine. Kim's campaign was seen as having the approval of Rose Pak, but the California Democratic machine of the 1960s and '70s was "dormant".[31]
Kim won the race for supervisor in an upset victory.[13] When she was sworn in she became the first Korean American supervisor in the nation. She told KoreAm magazine that without the backing of labor unions and the media, and with her own Democratic Party endorsing her opponent, the only strategy she had available was the "old-fashioned" one of visiting as many constituents as possible.[13] This was called Kim's "Fifty-Nine Precinct Strategy" (referring to Howard Dean's fifty-state strategy[32]) because of the many neighborhoods of the district that were targeted.[13] Less support came from the Korean community, who participated little in the election, than from Chinese American supporters, especially senior citizens in Chinatown, and a broad base of San Francisco youth.[33]
Kim stood up during the Pledge of Allegiance at Board of Supervisors meetings but refused to recite it in keeping with the decision she had made in her youth.[34] Within a few weeks of being sworn in, local and national news media carried the story of her refusal to recite the Pledge.[35][36] She said in 2011 that one example of "liberty and justice" not being available to all Americans was normal civil and political rights not federally granted to homosexuals.[9] On July 10, 2013, following the Supreme Court decision in United States v. Windsor, declaring unconstitutional the federal Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), Kim finally recited the Pledge along with the other supervisors. Kim said that, for her, DOMA had "symbolized th[e] inequity" of American justice.[37][38]
Twitter is an online social networking service that was headquartered in District 6 on Folsom Street when Kim took office. In January 2011, Twitter announced it was considering moving a few miles south to the city of Brisbane because the company was expanding and needed ten times more space.[39][40] Mayor Ed Lee indicated that he wanted Twitter to stay, so Kim led a team made up of mayoral staffers and Supervisor David Chiu to quickly shape a proposal which she sponsored in early February: Twitter would benefit from a six-year payroll tax exemption on net new jobs if it moved into the neglected and distressed mid-Market Street neighborhood of Kim's district. Talks centered on the company moving to the old Furniture Mart, a large Art Deco office building vacant since 2008.[41] Kim's tax break proposal would apply to any large company willing to settle in the economically depressed area. Observers felt that this, Kim's first proposal as supervisor, signaled a break with her previous progressive record, to show a pro-business aspect.[42][43][44][45] Former supervisor Chris Daly was critical; he said the plan could not help the city's budget shortfall, a serious problem resulting in jobs and services being cut.[44] Agreeing with this assessment, Local 1021 of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) also opposed the plan.[46] Other businesses expressed anger that they would be unable to take advantage of the tax break.[47] The city Controller's Office reported that the difference between Twitter leaving entirely or moving to mid-Market with the tax break was possibly worth $54 million in added revenue spread over 20 years.[48]
In April 2011 the Board of Supervisors voted to approve the payroll tax exemption plan.[49] Two weeks later, Twitter signed a ten-year lease on the Furniture Mart building.[50] The Twitter tax break remained a defining issue in the San Francisco mayoral election of 2011: Incumbent Lee supported the exemption while challenger John Avalos criticized it.[51] Lee retained his seat in the election. By June 2012, Twitter had settled 800 employees into the new location renamed Market Square,[52] and Kim was invited to visit. She posted a photo of Twitter's new "micro health kitchen".[53] Other tech companies such as Spotify and Yammer  took advantage of the payroll tax exemption plan.[54][55]
In 2010, Supervisor Ross Mirkarimi represented District 5, which shared a confusing border with District 6. Mirkarimi, a fellow ex-Green Party member and progressive politician, accompanied Kim one day during her District 6 door-to-door campaigning in the border area.[32] However, he did not fully endorse Kim—he co-endorsed both Kim and Walker, citing productive relationships with both.[56]
Mirkarimi was elected sheriff in 2011, but he was soon embroiled in a controversy regarding violence allegations that he had restrained his wife by grabbing and bruising her arm. For this he was suspended by Mayor Lee. About two out of three San Franciscans polled said they thought Mirkarimi should not be reinstated as sheriff.[57] Despite this popular sentiment, in October 2012, Mirkarimi was reinstated through the votes of four progressive supervisors: Kim, Avalos, David Campos and Christina Olague.[58] Kim said she voted to reinstate Mirkarimi because his wrongdoing was less than that described by the city charter as grounds for removal. On the other hand, she said she would support a recall election to remove Mirkarimi by popular vote.[59] San Francisco Chronicle columnist C. W. Nevius criticized Kim's position as that of a "political weathervane," unworthy of a leader.[60] San Francisco Bay Guardian editor Steven T. Jones was more supportive, describing how Kim was persistent in questioning Deputy City Attorney Sherri Kaiser to determine what misdemeanor might be considered too small for the mayor to dismiss any elected official.[61] Kim explained to her supporters that her decision was based on Mirkarimi not abusing the power of his office to commit wrongdoing, a point required by the city charter. She also expressed her worry that the case would have set a precedent allowing the mayor too much power over elected officials.[62] SF Weekly columnist Joe Eskenazi suggested that Kim's support for Mirkarimi kept her out of the running for president of the board of supervisors in 2014.[63]
In March 2013 after Polish labor organizer Lech Wałęsa made anti-gay remarks, Kim announced that she would seek to rename San Francisco's tiny Lech Walesa Street. The narrow one-way street was originally named Ivy Street but was changed in 1983 to honor Wałęsa. Kim suggested that Gay Games co-founder Tom Waddell be honored instead of Wałęsa, especially since the Tom Waddell Health Center was at that location.[64][65] The San Francisco Board of Supervisors voted unanimously to change the name as Kim proposed.
Kim has tackled several issues regarding the use of bicycles in San Francisco. While serving on the Board of Education, she supported new bike racks for eight middle schools, and she promoted Bike-to-School Day.[66] Though she never rode a bike in her childhood or at college, Kim told the San Francisco Bicycle Coalition in 2010 that she had been introduced to the city's "bike culture" and was slowly learning how to ride, a process that heightened her awareness of bicycle safety concerns.[67] In 2011, Bike-to-Work Day she rode as a passenger on the rear of an extended bike, but on May 10, 2012, she pedaled herself to City Hall.[68] With Mayor Lee, Kim backed the Yerba Buena Street Life Plan which was announced in 2011 for the area around Yerba Buena Gardens in District 6. The plan included new bike paths and more bike parking.[69][70] In September 2013 when the San Francisco Police Department was criticized for its investigation of a cyclist fatality that happened the previous month, Kim requested a hearing to discuss improvements for such police procedures.[71] Along with Supervisors Yee and Avalos, in January 2014 Kim called for the city to adopt a multifaceted bicycle and pedestrian safety initiative modeled after the Swedish Vision Zero program.[72] Kim ushered the most protected bike lanes, 18.6 miles, of any San Francisco Supervisor during her time. [73]
San Francisco supervisors had previously tried unsuccessfully to reform the process by which a citizen could use the 1970 California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) appeals process to challenge a building project on the basis of its environmental impact.[74] In 2012 Supervisor Scott Wiener proposed new rules that would restrict such challenges. Bicycling advocate Ben Christopher was supportive of Wiener's proposal, citing one instance in 2005 when a single citizen held up the city's comprehensive bicycle plan.[75] However, critics such as the Sierra Club said the proposed changes would weaken CEQA's protections.[76] In April 2013 Kim proposed a competing set of reform rules which Eric Brooks of the Green Party reported as "more CEQA friendly."[77] Wiener and Kim hammered out a proposal combining elements of both versions; this was passed unanimously by the Board in July 2013. Kim said the reformed rules would not prevent the public from "giving input" to construction projects.[74]
In September 2016, Kim authored the Evictions Protections 2.0 bill to protect tenants from frivolous “no fault evictions,” which had seen an uptick.[78] The goal of this ordinance is to reduce evictions by fixing loopholes and gaps in the law that were exploited by landlords to expel tenants. The bill ensures tenants cannot be evicted for small infractions, dubbed “gotcha evictions,[79][80]” such as leaving shoes or strollers in the hall, painting a bedroom, hanging laundry out to dry, etc. The bill also removed arbitrary restrictions on roommates created by landlords that are outside of applicable laws, such as the Housing code.[81]
This rise is in no fault evictions coincided with a spike in market rent, causing landlords to evict tenants in rent controlled units in order to rent spaces at the higher market rate. 83%[78] of the cities evictions were no fault evictions (an eviction that results from nothing the tenant has done). This not only threatened renters, but also impacted the cities growing housing crisis by removing access to affordable housing.
The legislation was co sponsored by Supervisors Campos, Mar, and Avalos and was passed on October 14, 2015.[82]
In April 2015, the San Francisco Giants and Mayor Lee announced a large community development proposal, Mission Rock, to replace the parking lots near AT&T Park, where the baseball team plays. The proposal required voter approval in November 2015.[83] In May 2015, the Giants announced that 33% of the project would be devoted to affordable housing, to match Mayor Lee's goal for all new construction.[84] Kim determined that a larger proportion of the project should be devoted to affordable housing, and she drafted a competing ballot initiative with the assistance of TODCO, a non-profit community housing planning group.[85] The danger of a competing ballot initiative brought the Giants to negotiate. Kim and the Giants worked out a deal to increase the project's affordable housing to 40%, and Kim dropped her own ballot initiative.[86]
In April 2016, Kim proposed that tuition should be free at City College of San Francisco (CCSF), which had seen a 30% decline in students over the previous four years, had lost $35 million in state funding tied to attendance, and was in danger of losing its accreditation and more state funding. Some 20% of the college students had already been granted a fee waiver by the City of San Francisco; Kim said that these students should also have free books, transportation and child care.[87] Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders, himself a proponent of free college tuition, voiced support for the idea.[88] To pay for this idea, Kim authored a real estate tax initiative to raise taxes on real estate sales and transfers over $5 million, with the goal of increasing city revenue by about $45 million per year.[89] Voters approved Kim's Proposition W at the ballot in November 2016. CCSF's accreditation was confirmed for seven more years starting in January 2017. The next month, Mayor Lee and Kim announced a deal through which the city would pay $5.4 million per year to CCSF students who had lived in San Francisco for at least one year, so that they could pay their tuition. The deal, called Free City, also provided $250 cash per semester for each low-income student who attended CCSF full-time, as well as $100 per semester for part-time students. The cash grants were for the students to pay for books, transportation, supplies, and health care.[90] The Free City program was described by PBS as the first time that a US city made community college tuition free for all its residents.[91] In September 2017 when the program began, enrollment at CCSF increased by 6,450 students, a "huge boost".[92] Sanders spoke at CCSF to praise the successful program as "a model" for the whole country.[93]
Kim ran for the 11th California State Senate District in 2016 against Scott Wiener. Kim received slightly more votes than Wiener in the primary election, but when the general election was held Kim was defeated by Wiener, 49% to 51%.[94]
Kim was a candidate in the 2018 San Francisco special mayoral election, held in June 2018 following the sudden death of Mayor Lee in December 2017.[95] Kim was seen as one of the top four candidates, along with Mark Leno, London Breed and Angela Alioto.[96] She received 24% of the vote in the election, finishing in third place.[97] Because the election was conducted with ranked voting, most of Kim's votes were apportioned to the remaining two candidates in Round 8, with two-thirds of Kim voters choosing Leno as their next alternative, and one-fifth of Kim voters choosing Breed. The larger Kim apportionment to Leno did not overturn the strong lead taken early by Breed, and Breed was elected mayor.[98]
Kim plays electric bass guitar and has performed with the all-female indie rock band Strangely at small San Francisco venues including the Brainwash Cafe and Laundromat.[11][99] In 2000 she co-founded Locus Arts in San Francisco's Japantown, a non-profit gallery and media performance space formed to support Asian American art; the gallery eventually merged with Kearny Street Workshop.[13] For the Asian American Theater Company she served on the board of directors. She helped to save Bindlestiff Studio, a place for Filipino arts in SoMa. Kim occasionally serves as a judge at poetry slam competitions held by Youth Speaks.[99] In 2004 she said her favorite musical artists included the Quannum Projects, a collective of hip-hop musicians such as rapper Lyrics Born and hip-hop duo Blackalicious.[26] In 2010 she said her favorite song was "Triumph" released in 1997 by the Wu-Tang Clan.[100]
Kim was selected by 7x7 magazine as one of "20 Hot 2010" persons in September 2010.[11][101] She was pictured on the cover of SF Weekly in October 2010.[10] Kim was featured on the cover of KoreAm magazine in February 2011.[102][103] Nark magazine interviewed Kim in June 2012, asking her about her nightlife preferences. She said she appreciated the work of San Francisco Entertainment Commissioners who ease the friction between nightlife venues and local residents. Kim said wine and single-malt whiskey were drinks she enjoyed, especially Lagavulin.[104]
In August 2016, Kim was reportedly dating California Supreme Court Associate Justice Goodwin Liu.[105]

TITLE: Eugene England
George Eugene England, Jr. (22 July 1933 – 17 August 2001), usually credited as Eugene England,  was a Mormon writer, teacher, and scholar.  He founded Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought, the oldest independent journal in Mormon Studies, with G. Wesley Johnson, Paul G. Salisbury, Joseph H. Jeppson, and Frances Menlove in 1966, and cofounded the Association for Mormon Letters in 1976. He is also widely known in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) for his many essays about Mormon culture and thought.  From 1977–1998, England taught Mormon Literature at Brigham Young University.[1]  England described the ideal modern Mormon scholar as "critical and innovative as his gifts from God require but conscious of and loyal to his own unique heritage and nurturing community and thus able to exercise those gifts without harm to others or himself."[2]
England was born 22 July 1933 in Logan, Utah to George Eugene England and Dora Rose Hartvigsen England. He grew up in Downey, Idaho, where his father owned a wheat farm. At age 20, he married the former Charlotte Hawkins, with whom he was soon called to serve an LDS mission to Samoa.[3]
After serving as a captain in the U.S. Air Force, England entered graduate school at Stanford University, where he was both influenced by the 1960s-era campus movement and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as an active member and a leader in his student ward. While at Stanford, England met Wesley Johnson and together the two men conceived of and announced the formation of an academic journal on Mormon culture, Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought.
Leaving Stanford, England taught at St. Olaf College in Minnesota, while completing work on his Ph.D., awarded in 1974. But he was forced to leave when some of his students expressed interest in Mormonism and their parents complained.[4] He then taught at the Institute of Religion of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints adjacent to the University of Utah for two years, before receiving a professorship at Brigham Young University.
At BYU, England was able to teach classes in Mormon literature and in 1976 he helped found the Association for Mormon Letters in order to raise the visibility of the study of Mormon literature. He also explored religious themes in important literary works. During his years at BYU England was at his most prolific, writing books of essays such as Dialogues with Myself and "Why the Church Is as True as the Gospel,"[5] poetry, a biography and numerous articles. In 1981 England received a letter from Apostle Bruce R. McConkie chastising him for publicly advocating the view that God continues to learn new things.[6] According to historian Claudia Bushman, "the McConkie-England disagreement revealed the division between theological conservatives and liberals within the believing camp and, in a larger sense, the tensions between authoritarian control versus free expression."[7]
In the last decade of his life, England felt increasingly under fire for his work, which led him to retire from BYU in 1998.[8][9]  He was then offered the position of writer in residence at Utah Valley State College in Orem, Utah. There he started the Center for the Study of Mormon Culture, as part of the college's religious studies program. Before England could fully develop the Center, he suffered a debilitating case of brain cancer.  Despite an operation that removed two golf-ball sized cysts and a portion of a tumor, he died on 17 August 2001.[10][11]
Among other positions held in the LDS Church at various times England served as both a bishop and as a stake president.

TITLE: Victor Jih
Victor Hao-Jan Jih (Chinese: 季浩然; pinyin: Jì Hàorán) is an American lawyer and contestant on the 14th season of The Amazing Race, a reality television game show produced by CBS. He and his sister, Tammy Jih, were the winners of the competition and one million dollar grand prize.
In 2011, Jih was honoured by the National Law Journal as one of the "Minority 40 Under 40" lawyers.
Victor Jih was born and raised in the San Francisco Bay Area along with two younger siblings. He graduated from Leigh High School, Stanford University with a B.A. in Political Science in 1993, and Harvard Law School in 1996.
Fluent in Mandarin Chinese, he is the eldest of three children born to immigrant parents from Taipei, Taiwan.
Jih's father came to the U.S. as a full scholarship student at The University of California, Berkeley. After receiving his Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering, Dr. Jih began his career in IBM as a Staff Engineer and rose to become an Account Executive for marketing & sales of IT solution services to the semiconductor industry. In 1997, Jih's parents returned to their home to further their career.
Jih currently resides in Los Angeles, California.
On October 20, 2013 Victor participated in The Amazing Los Angeles Race Disneyland edition.
Victor and his sister, Tammy, were selected for the race after she had pushed for them to apply, although he had been the longer fan of the show. According to Victor, the siblings had led a very structured life growing up. Their parents taught them to do everything to the best of their ability and to obey all rules in an orderly manner. As a result, the siblings studied hard at school, obtained good grades, and graduated from the world's top universities with law degrees. Even after graduation, they took no break and immediately ventured into the workforce. It was because of such a structured upbringing and the fact that both of them had not taken any major risks in life that made them decide to apply for the show. They wanted to step outside of their normal routine as lawyers and take an adventure of a lifetime. After twelve grueling legs spanning 40,000 miles, they were declared the winners of the race after narrowly avoiding elimination during the third leg in Romania. As a result, they made history by becoming the first Asian-American team to win the competition. Jih has written blogs and commentaries for further seasons of the show.[1]
A writer for the Chinese language newspaper, World Journal, based in North America, praised the team as "Glory of Taiwan", "famous product of Taiwan" 台灣之光 台灣名產 for representing Taiwanese Americans in the media spotlight.[2] They were portrayed as humble, gracious and  friendly, but also extremely competitive.
As three legs of the second half of the race were spent in China, where the siblings could speak the local language, a blogger for the Chicago Sun Times and many detractors questioned whether the team had an unfair advantage. Both of them disagreed and Victor explained that every team brings to the game different skills and strengths, and their ability to speak Mandarin balances out against other teams' advantages e.g. choreography, athleticism, swimming, physical strength, life experiences, et cetera. They explained how their mother would fight with them to get them to attend Chinese school and force them to speak the language at home. Both were extremely thankful for their parents' good intentions and not giving up on them when they were young. In previous seasons of the race, there were also teams that spoke the local language of the countries they visited.
Jih was a partner at the Century City office of O'Melveny & Myers LLP, specializing in entertainment and media litigation until May 2015.[3] Now, he is a partner at the Los Angeles office of Irell & Manella.[4]
An avid debater since high school, Jih holds the position of debate coach at Brentwood School, and is the founder of Victory Briefs, a high school debate company, which he sold in 2014.[5]
He currently co-teaches the Ninth Circuit Appellate Practice Clinic at UCLA.[6]

TITLE: Tachi Yamada
Tadataka "Tachi" Yamada, MD, KBE[1] (山田忠孝 Yamada Tadataka or  "ターチ Tachi"; born June 5, 1945), is Executive Vice-President, Chief Medical and Scientific Officer, and a Board Member of Takeda Pharmaceuticals. He has responsibility for all of Takeda's research and development activities.[2]
Yamada was born in Tokyo, a grandson of one of the first people of Japanese descent to be fully trained as an American physician, and completed his education in the United States. Yamada graduated from Phillips Academy in 1963.[3]  He holds a bachelor's degree in history from Stanford University, and MD from New York University.  After completing his internal medicine training at the Medical College of Virginia, he served as an investigator in the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases and trained in gastroenterology at the UCLA School of Medicine, where he assumed his first faculty position.
A scientist and scholar in gastroenterology, Yamada is the author of more than 150 original manuscripts on the subject and is the editor of The Textbook of Gastroenterology (now in its Fifth Edition).
Before joining Takeda, Yamada was the President of the Global Health Program at the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.[2] In this role, he led the foundation's efforts to help develop and deliver low-cost, life-saving health tools for the developing world.
Yamada served as Chairman of Research and Development and was a member of the Board of Directors at GlaxoSmithKline before joining the foundation.[4]
Prior to that, he was Chairman of the Department of Internal Medicine at the University of Michigan Medical School[4] and Physician-in-Chief at the University of Michigan Medical Center.[4]
Yamada is a past president of the American Gastroenterological Association and the Association of American Physicians,[4] a master of the American College of Physicians,[4] and a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Science in the United States, the Academy of Medical Sciences in the United Kingdom , and the National Academy of Medicine in Mexico.[4]
He has served as a member of the U.S. President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. He currently serves as a member of the Board of Directors of the National Bureau of Asian Research, Singapore's Agency for Science, Technology and Research, and is a member of the Council of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences.
Yamada has received an honorary appointment as Knight Commander of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire.
He is a fellow of Imperial College London, and gave the last centenary lecture at Imperial College London in March 2008, which was chaired by Sir Richard Sykes.
Yamada has been awarded honorary doctorates by the University of Michigan,[5] University of East Anglia, the University of Warwick, Washington College, and Loyola University of Chicago.
He has also been the recipient of numerous awards, including the SmithKline and French Award for Distinguished Achievement in Gastrointestinal Physiology from the American Physiological Society and the Julius Friedenwald Medal from the American Gastroenterological Association.
Yamada was conferred the title Honorary Citizen of Singapore in 2016.[6]

TITLE: Jensen Huang
Jen-Hsun "Jensen" Huang (Chinese: 黃仁勳; pinyin: Huáng Rénxūn; born February 17, 1963) is a Taiwanese-born American billionaire businessman and electrical engineer. He co-founded the graphics-processor company Nvidia in 1993 and has been its president and chief executive officer (CEO) since inception. Huang graduated from Oregon State University before moving to California. He earned a master's degree from Stanford University.[2] In 2008, Forbes listed him as the 61st highest paid CEO in a list of U.S. CEOs and one of the wealthiest Asian Americans.[3]
Huang was born in the coastal city of Tainan, Taiwan. His family immigrated to the United States and moved to Oneida, Kentucky, and then to Oregon. He graduated from Aloha High School, outside Portland.[4]
Huang received his undergraduate degree in electrical engineering from Oregon State University in 1984, and his master's degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 1992.[5]
After college he was a director at LSI Logic and a microprocessor designer at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD).[6] On his 30th birthday in 1993,[7] Huang co-founded Nvidia and is the CEO and president. He owns a portion of Nvidia's stock worth about US$1.3 billion as of 2016.[8] He earned $24.6 million as CEO in 2007, ranking him as the 61st highest paid U.S. CEO by Forbes.[3]
Huang gave his alma mater Stanford University US$30 million to build the Jen-Hsun Huang School of Engineering Center.[9] The building is the second of four that make up Stanford's Science and Engineering Quad.[10] It was designed by Bora Architects of Portland, Oregon.[citation needed] Huang gave his alma mater Oneida Baptist Institute $2 million to build Huang Hall, a new girls' dormitory and classroom building .[11]
In 2007, Huang was the recipient of the Silicon Valley Education Foundation's Pioneer Business Leader Award for his work in both the corporate and philanthropic worlds.[citation needed]
In 1999, Jensen Huang was named Entrepreneur of the Year in High Technology by Ernst & Young.
In 2003, Huang received the Dr. Morris Chang Exemplary Leadership Award, which recognizes a leader who has made exceptional contributions to driving the development, innovation, growth, and long-term opportunities of the fabless semiconductor industry, from the Fabless Semiconductor Association. He was also a National Finalist for the EY Entrepreneur of the Year Award in 2003 and was an Award Recipient for the Northern California region in 1999.[12]
Additionally, Huang is a recipient of the Daniel J. Epstein Engineering Management Award from the University of Southern California and was named an Alumni Fellow by Oregon State University.
Huang was awarded an honorary doctorate from Oregon State University at the June 13, 2009, commencement ceremony.[13]
In 2018, Huang was listed in the inaugural EDGE 50, naming the world's top 50 influencers in edge computing.[14]
While at Oregon State, Huang met his future wife, Lori, his engineering lab partner at the time. Huang has two children.[15] He is said to be a cousin of AMD CEO Lisa Su,[16][17] but this has been dismissed by her.[18] Politically, Huang favors a more liberal government.[19]

TITLE: Marissa Mayer
Marissa Ann Mayer (/ˈmaɪ.ər/; born May 30, 1975) is an American businesswoman and investor. She is an information technology executive, and co-founder of Lumi Labs. Mayer formerly served as the president and chief executive officer of Yahoo!, a position she held from July 2012. It was announced in January 2017 that she would step down from the company's board upon the sale of Yahoo!'s operating business to Verizon Communications[8] for $4.8 billion.[9] She would not join the newly combined company, now called Verizon Media (formerly Oath), and announced her resignation on June 13, 2017.[9][10]  She is a graduate of Stanford University and was a long-time executive, usability leader, and key spokeswoman for Google (employee #20).[11][12][13]
Mayer was born in Wausau, Wisconsin, the daughter of Margaret Mayer, an art teacher of Finnish descent,[14] and Michael Mayer, an environmental engineer who worked for water companies.[15][16][17] Her grandfather, Clem Mayer, had polio when he was 7 and served as mayor of Jackson, Wisconsin, for 32 years.[18][19][20] She has a younger brother.[15] She would later describe herself as having been "painfully shy" as a child and teenager.[21] She "never had fewer than one after-school activity per day," participating in ballet, ice-skating, piano, swimming, debate, and Brownies.[15] During middle school and high school, she took piano and ballet lessons, the latter of which taught her "criticism and discipline, poise, and confidence".[21] At an early age, she showed an interest in math and science.[22]
When she was attending Wausau West High School, Mayer was on the curling team and the precision dance team.[21] She excelled in chemistry, calculus, biology, and physics.[23] She took part in extracurricular activities, becoming president of her high school's Spanish club, treasurer of the Key Club, captain of the debate team, and captain of the pom-pom squad.[21] Her high school debate team won the Wisconsin state championship and the pom-pom squad was the state runner-up.[18] During high school, she worked as a grocery clerk.[24] After graduating from high school in 1993,[25] Mayer was selected by Tommy Thompson, then the Governor of Wisconsin, as one of the state's two delegates to attend the National Youth Science Camp in West Virginia.[26]
Intending to become a pediatric neurosurgeon,[27] Mayer took pre-med classes at Stanford University.[21] She later switched her major from pediatric neuroscience to symbolic systems,[28] a major which combined philosophy, cognitive psychology, linguistics, and computer science.[15] At Stanford, she danced in the university ballet's Nutcracker, was a member of parliamentary debate, volunteered at children's hospitals, and helped bring computer science education to Bermuda's schools.[29] During her junior year, she taught a class in symbolic systems, with Eric S. Roberts as her supervisor. The class was so well received by students that Roberts asked Mayer to teach another class over the summer.[21] Mayer went on to graduate with honors from Stanford with a BS in symbolic systems in 1997[28][29] and an MS in computer science in 1999.[30] For both degrees, her specialization was in artificial intelligence. For her undergraduate thesis, she built travel-recommendation software that advised users in natural-sounding human language.[27] In 2009, the Illinois Institute of Technology granted Mayer an honoris causa doctorate degree in recognition of her work in the field of search.[31][32]
Mayer interned at SRI International in Menlo Park, California, and Ubilab, UBS's research lab based in Zurich, Switzerland.[27] She holds several patents in artificial intelligence and interface design.[33][34]
After graduating from Stanford, Mayer received 14 job offers,[28] including a teaching job at Carnegie Mellon University[29] and a consulting job at McKinsey & Company.[21] She joined Google in 1999 as employee number 20.[35][36] She started out writing code and overseeing small teams of engineers, developing and designing Google's search offerings.[12] She became known for her attention to detail, which helped land her a promotion to product manager,[37] and later she became director of consumer web products.[18][38] She oversaw the layout of Google's well-known, unadorned search homepage.[38][39][40] She was also on the three-person team responsible for Google AdWords, which is an advertising platform that allows businesses to show their product to relevant potential customers based on their search terms. AdWords helped deliver 96% of the company's revenue in the first quarter of 2011.
In 2002, Mayer started the Associate Product Manager (APM) program, a Google mentorship initiative to recruit new talents and cultivate them for leadership roles. Each year, Mayer selected a number of junior employees for the two-year program, where they took on extracurricular assignments and intensive evening classes.[21][41] Notable graduates of the program include Bret Taylor and Justin Rosenstein.[41] In 2005, Mayer became Vice President of Search Products and User Experience.[42] Mayer held key roles in Google Search, Google Images, Google News, Google Maps, Google Books, Google Product Search, Google Toolbar, iGoogle, and Gmail.[43]
Mayer was the vice president of Google Search Products and User Experience until the end of 2010, when she was asked by then-CEO Eric Schmidt to head the Local, Maps, and Location Services.[44] In 2011, she secured Google's acquisition of survey site Zagat for $125 million. While Mayer was working at Google, she taught introductory computer programming at Stanford and mentored students at the East Palo Alto Charter School.[18][27] She was awarded the Centennial Teaching Award and the Forsythe Award from Stanford.[45]
On July 16, 2012, Mayer was appointed president and CEO of Yahoo!, effective the following day. She was also a member of the company's board of directors.[46][47] At the time of her appointment, Yahoo's numbers had been falling behind those of Google for over a year and the company had been through several top management changes. To simplify the bureaucratic process and "make the culture the best version of itself", Mayer launched a new online program called PB&J. It collects employee complaints, as well as their votes on problems in the office; if a problem generates at least 50 votes, online management automatically investigates the matter.[48] In February 2013, Mayer oversaw a major personnel policy change at Yahoo! that required all remote-working employees to convert to in-office roles.[49] Having worked from home toward the end of her pregnancy, Mayer returned to work after giving birth to a boy, and built a mother's room next to her office suite—Mayer was consequently criticized for the telecommuting ban.[50] In April 2013, Mayer changed Yahoo!'s maternity leave policy, lengthening its time allowance and providing a cash bonus to parents.[51] CNN noted this was in line with other Silicon Valley companies, such as Facebook and Google.[52][53] Mayer has been criticized for many of her management decisions in pieces by The New York Times and The New Yorker.[54][55]
On May 20, 2013, Mayer led Yahoo! to acquire Tumblr in a $1.1 billion acquisition.[56][57] In February 2016, Yahoo! acknowledged that the value of Tumblr had fallen by $230 million since it was acquired. In July 2013, Yahoo! reported a fall in revenues, but a rise in profits compared with the same period in the previous year. Reaction on Wall Street was muted, with shares falling 1.7%.[58] In September 2013, it was reported that the stock price of Yahoo! had doubled over the 14 months since Mayer's appointment.[59] However, much of this growth may be attributed to Yahoo!'s stake in the Chinese e-commerce company Alibaba Group, which was acquired before Mayer's tenure.[60]
In November 2013, Mayer instituted a performance review system based on a bell curve ranking of employees, suggesting that managers rank their employees on a bell curve, with those at the low end being fired.[61][62] Employees complained that some managers were viewing the process as mandatory.[62] In February 2016, a former Yahoo! employee filed a lawsuit against the company claiming that Yahoo's firing practices have violated both California and federal labor laws.[63]
In 2014, Mayer was ranked sixth on Fortune's 40 under 40 list,[64] and was ranked the 16th most-powerful businesswoman in the world that year according to the same publication.[65] In March 2016 Fortune would name Mayer as one of the world's most disappointing leaders.[54][55][66] Yahoo! stocks continued to fall by more than 30% throughout 2015, while 12 key executives left the company.[67]
In December 2015, the New York-based hedge fund SpringOwl, a shareholder in Yahoo Inc., released a statement arguing that Mayer be replaced as CEO.[68] Starboard Value, an activist investing firm that owns a stake in Yahoo, likewise wrote a scathing letter regarding Mayer's performance at Yahoo.[69] By January 2016, it was further estimated that Yahoo!'s core business has been worth less than zero dollars for the past few quarters.[70] In February 2016, Mayer confirmed that Yahoo! was considering the possibility of selling its core business.[71] In March 2017, it was reported that Mayer could receive a $23 million termination package upon the sale of Yahoo! to Verizon.[72]
Mayer announced her resignation on June 13, 2017.[73] In spite of large losses in advertising revenue at Yahoo! and a 50% reduction in staff during her 5 years as CEO, Mayer was paid a total of $239 million over that time, mainly in stock and stock options.[74] On the day of her resignation, Mayer publicly highlighted many of the company's achievements during her tenure, including: creating $43B in market capitalization, tripling Yahoo stock, growing mobile users to over 650 million, building a $1.5B mobile ad business, and transforming Yahoo's culture.[73] Over Mayer's tenure, the number of monthly visits on Yahoo's home page went down from nearly 10 billion to less than 4.5 while Google's went up from 17 billion to over 56.[75] At the time of Mayer's hiring, Yahoo's numbers had already been falling behind those of Google's for over a year. However, Mayer proved unable to reverse this trend.
On 8 November 2017, along with several other present and former corporate CEOs, Mayer testified before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation regarding major security breaches at Yahoo during 2013 and 2014.[76][77]
Scott Ard, a prominent editorial director, fired from Yahoo! in 2015, filed a lawsuit alleging that "Mayer encouraged and fostered the use of an employee performance-rating system to accommodate management’s subjective biases and personal opinions, to the detriment of Yahoo!’s male employees." He claimed that, prior to his firing, he had received "fully satisfactory" performance reviews since starting at the company in 2011 as head of editorial programming for Yahoo!'s home page; however, he was relieved of his role, which was given to a woman who had been recently hired.[78][79] This case was dismissed in March 2018.[80]
An earlier lawsuit was filed by Gregory Anderson, who was fired in 2014, alleging the company’s performance management system was arbitrary and unfair and disguised layoffs as terminations for the purpose of evading state and federal WARN Acts, making it the first WARN Act and gender discrimination lawsuit Yahoo! and Mayer faced in 2016.[81][82][83]
After leaving Yahoo! in 2017, Mayer started Lumi Labs[84] with former colleague Enrique Munoz Torres. The company is based in Palo Alto and is focused on artificial intelligence and consumer media.[85]
As well as sitting on the boards of directors of Walmart, Maisonette, and Jawbone, Mayer also sits on several non-profit boards, such as Cooper–Hewitt, National Design Museum, New York City Ballet, San Francisco Ballet, and San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.[86][87][88][89]
Mayer actively invests in technology companies, including crowd-sourced design retailer Minted,[90][91] live video platform Airtime.com,[91] wireless power startup uBeam,[91] online DIY community/e-commerce company Brit + Co.,[91][92] mobile payments processor Square,[91] home décor site One Kings Lane,[91][93] genetic testing company Natera,[91] and nootropics and biohacking company Nootrobox.[94]
Mayer was named to Fortune magazine's annual list of America's 50 Most Powerful Women in Business in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014 with ranks at 50, 44, 42, 38, 14, 8 and 16 respectively.[95] In 2008, at age 33, she was the youngest woman ever listed.
Mayer was named one of Glamour Magazine's Women of the Year in 2009.[96] She was listed in Forbes Magazine's List of The World's 100 Most Powerful Women in 2012, 2013 and 2014, with ranks of 20, 32 and 18 respectively.
In September 2013, Mayer became the first CEO of a Fortune 500 company to be featured in a Vogue magazine spread.[15]
In 2013, she was also named in the Time 100, becoming the first woman listed as number one on Fortune magazine's annual list of the top 40 business stars under 40 years old.[97]
Mayer made Fortune magazine history in 2013, as the only person to feature in all three of its annual lists during the same year: Businessperson of the Year (No. 10), Most Powerful Women (at No. 8), and 40 Under 40 (No. 1) at the same time.[98] In March 2016, Fortune then named Mayer as one of the world's most disappointing leaders.[66]
On 24 December 2015, Mayer was listed by UK-based company Richtopia at number 14 in the list of 500 Most Influential CEOs.[99]
Mayer appeared on the List of women CEOs of Fortune 500 companies in 2017, having ranked 498 of the top 500 Fortune 500 company CEOs.[100]
Mayer married lawyer and investor Zachary Bogue on December 12, 2009.[37][101] On the day Yahoo! announced her hiring, Mayer revealed that she was pregnant;[102][103][104] she gave birth to a baby boy on September 30, 2012.[105] Although she asked for baby name suggestions via social media,[106] she eventually chose the name Macallister from an existing list.[107] On December 10, 2015, Mayer announced that she had given birth to identical twin girls,[108][109] Marielle and Sylvana.[110]
Mayer is Lutheran,[111] but she has said—referencing Vince Lombardi's "Your God, your family and the Green Bay Packers"—that her priorities are "God, family and Yahoo!, except I'm not that religious, so it's really family and Yahoo!."[112]

TITLE: Joel Primack
Joel R. Primack (born July 14, 1945) is a professor of physics and astrophysics at the University of California, Santa Cruz and is a member of the Santa Cruz Institute for Particle Physics.[1][2]
Primack received his A.B. from Princeton University in 1966 and his Ph.D. from Stanford University in 1970. His fields of study are relativistic quantum field theory, cosmology, and particle astrophysics. He is also involved in supercomputer simulations of dark matter models. He directs the University of California High-Performance AstroComputing Center (UC-HiPACC). Primack is best known for his co-authorship with George Blumenthal, Sandra Moore Faber, and Martin Rees of the theory of cold dark matter (CDM) in 1984.[3][4] He co-authored two books with Nancy Abrams, The View from the Center of the Universe (2006)[5] and The New Universe and the Human Future (2011).[6] He played main roles in starting the Congressional Science and Technology Fellowship program, the Forum on Physics and Society of the American Physical Society, and the Science and Human Rights program of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1970-1973.[7] He is a fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.

TITLE: Alison Davis-Blake
Alison Davis-Blake (born November 5, 1958) is the eighth president of Bentley University. Before Bentley, she served as dean of the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota and of the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan. At Ross, Davis-Blake was the school’s first female dean, and at the time of her appointment she was the highest-ranking female dean at any U.S. business school.
Davis-Blake was born on November 5, 1958 in Palo Alto, California. She grew up in the Minneapolis–Saint Paul area of Minnesota.  Her father was a professor of information systems at the University of Minnesota.
Davis-Blake received her B.S. in Economics (summa cum laude and with highest (University) honors) in 1979 from Brigham Young University. After working at Touche Ross,[1] she earned a M.O.B. from the University's Marriott School of Management in 1982. In 1986, she received a Ph.D. in Organizational Behavior from Stanford University.[2]
In 1990, Davis-Blake was hired by the McCombs School of Business[3] at the University of Texas at Austin[4] as an associate professor. She was promoted to Chair of the Management Department,[3] and in 2003 became the Senior Associate Dean for Academic Affairs.[3][5]
In 2006, Davis-Blake was appointed as Dean of the Carlson School of Management at the University of Minnesota[5] where she remained through June 2011.
On February 14, 2011, it was announced that Davis-Blake would become the new Dean of the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan, succeeding Robert J. Dolan. Davis-Blake served as Dean from July 1, 2011, to July 1, 2016. She was succeeded by Scott DeRue.[6]
On July 1, 2018, Davis-Blake became Bentley University's eighth President and its second female President after Gloria Cordes Larson.[7]
Davis-Blake's academic service included editor positions with both the Academy of Management Review and Administrative Science Quarterly.
Davis-Blake is married, and has two sons.[1] She is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

TITLE: Lee Mendelson
Leland Maurice Mendelson (March 24, 1933 – December 25, 2019) was an American television producer and the executive producer of the many Peanuts animated specials.
Mendelson was born in San Francisco, California, but grew up in San Mateo, graduating from San Mateo High School.[1] He entered Stanford University in 1950, where he majored in English.[1] After graduating in 1954, he spent three years in the Air Force where he served as a lieutenant. He then worked several years for his father, a vegetable grower and shipper.
Mendelson's career in television began in 1961, when he started working at San Francisco's KPIX-TV, where he created public service announcements.[1] A fortunate find of some antique film footage of the 1915 San Francisco World's Fair led to Mendelson's first production, a documentary entitled The Innocent Fair. The documentary was the first in a series on the history of the city, San Francisco Pageant, for which Mendelson won a Peabody Award.[1]
Mendelson left KPIX in 1963 to form his own production company.[2] His first work was a documentary on Willie Mays, A Man Named Mays. Shortly after the documentary aired, Mendelson came across a Peanuts comic strip that revolved around Charlie Brown's baseball team. Mendelson thought that since he'd just "done the world's greatest baseball player, now [he] should do the world's worst baseball player, Charlie Brown."[3] Mendelson approached Peanuts creator Charles Schulz with the idea of producing a documentary on Schulz and his strip. Schulz, who had enjoyed the Mays documentary, readily agreed. The 1965 documentary, Charlie Brown & Charles Schulz, was the beginning of a 30-year collaboration between Schulz and Mendelson.
While Mendelson was attempting to find a market for the Schulz documentary, he was approached by The Coca-Cola Company, who asked him if he was interested in producing an animated Christmas special for television. Mendelson was, and he immediately contacted Schulz in regards to using the Peanuts characters. Schulz in turn suggested hiring animator and director Bill Meléndez, whom Schulz had worked with while creating a Peanuts-themed advertising campaign for the Ford Motor Company. Mendelson also hired jazz composer Vince Guaraldi after hearing a Guaraldi-composed song while driving across the Golden Gate Bridge.
After a hurried six-month production period, A Charlie Brown Christmas aired December 9, 1965, on CBS. The show went on to win both the Emmy and Peabody award, and was the first of over 40 animated Peanuts specials created by Mendelson, Meléndez and Schulz. In addition, they collaborated on The Charlie Brown and Snoopy Show, which ran on Saturday mornings during the 1980s.  
In 1968, Mendelson produced the documentary Travels with Charley, based upon the book by John Steinbeck.[1]
Mendelson founded and headed Lee Mendelson Film Productions, a Burlingame, California-based television and film production company. Mendelson Productions has produced over 100 television and film productions, winning 12 Emmys and 4 Peabodys, as well as numerous Grammy, Emmy, and Oscar nominations.[4] Mendelson died on December 25, 2019, from lung cancer, leaving a wife, Ploenta, and four children.[1]

TITLE: Gillian Lester
Gillian L. L. Lester (born October 30, 1964) is the 15th Dean of Columbia Law School.[1] She joined Columbia Law School on January 1, 2015, as Dean and Lucy G. Moses Professor of Law.[2][3] Previously, Lester was acting dean of the University of California, Berkeley School of Law[4] where she had been a professor since 2006.[5] Before that, she was a full professor at the School of Law of the University of California, Los Angeles.[5]
Lester is the second female dean of Columbia Law School. Soon after taking the job, Lester told The Chronicle of Higher Education she wanted to tweak the curriculum to turn more Columbia law students into "global actors" and "entrepreneurs" who could build careers in both the private and public sectors.[6]
Lester was born in Maple Ridge, British Columbia and later moved to West Vancouver. She is the youngest of four children born to Richard Egerton Matheson Lester, a labor lawyer, and Lois (Jensen) Lester, a teacher.[7] She earned a B.Sc. in 1986 from the University of British Columbia, an LL.B. in 1990 from the University of Toronto, where she served as editor-in-chief of the University of Toronto Faculty of Law Review,[8] and a J.S.D. in 1998 from Stanford University.[9]
Lester began her career in the legal academy in 1994 at the University of California, Los Angeles School of Law. She became a full professor in 1999. She joined the Berkeley law faculty in 2006 and in 2014 became the Alexander F. and May T. Morrison Professor of Law and the Werner and Mimi Wolfen Research Professor.[10]  At Berkeley, Lester served as co-director of the Berkeley Center for Health, Economic and Family Security;[11] Associate Dean for the J.D. Program and Curricular Planning; and, in 2013, Acting Dean.[12]
She has held external appointments as the Sidley Austin Visiting Professor at Harvard Law School and the Sloan Fellow and Visiting Professor at Georgetown University Law Center, as well as short-term visiting appointments at the University of Southern California Gould School of Law, the University of Chicago Law School, and Radzyner Law School at Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya in Israel.
She serves on the board of directors for Legal Aid Society of New York[13] and the International Society for Labour and Social Security Law.  Lester is also a member of the Advisory Committee of the Labor Law Research Network[14] and the American Law Institute[15] and was an Advisor for the American Law Institute Restatement 3d Employment Law. She is also on the advisory board of the Columbia Law Review.[16]
Lester is a nationally recognized authority in employment law and policy.[17][18] Her research has explored issues in the workplace and in public finance, distributive justice, and the design of social insurance programs.[19] She is the author of numerous books and articles, including one of the leading casebooks on employment law, Employment Law Cases and Materials.[20] She is also a member of the American Law Institute and was an adviser to the ALI Restatement of Employment Law.
Lester is married to Columbia Law School professor Eric Talley, with whom she has two children.[21][22]
Books
Articles and chapters

TITLE: Morris Chang
Morris Chang (Chinese: 張忠謀; pinyin: Zhāng Zhōngmóu; born 10 July 1931), is an businessman in Taiwan and the founder, as well as former chairman and CEO, of Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), the world's first and largest silicon foundry. He is known as the semiconductor industry founder of Taiwan.[2]
Chang was born in Ningbo, Zhejiang. When he was young, he wanted to become a novelist or journalist.[3] However, his father, an official in the Yin county government, persuaded him otherwise. In 1948, as China was in the height of the Chinese Civil War, a year before People’s Republic of China established, Chang moved to Hong Kong.
The very next year he moved yet again to the United States to attend Harvard University. He transferred to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in sophomore year[4] and received his bachelor's and master's degrees in mechanical engineering from MIT in 1952 and 1953, respectively.  After leaving MIT without obtaining a PhD, he was hired by Sylvania Semiconductor, then just known as a small semiconductor division of Sylvania Electric Products, in 1955.[5] Three years later, he moved to Texas Instruments in 1958, which was then rapidly rising in its field.  After three years at TI, he rose to manager of the engineering section of the company. It was then, in 1961, that TI decided to invest in him by giving him the opportunity to obtain his PhD degree, which he received in electrical engineering from Stanford University in 1964.[citation needed]
During his 25-year career (1958–1983) at Texas Instruments, he rose up in the ranks to become the group vice president responsible for TI's worldwide semiconductor business. He left TI and later become president and chief operating officer of General Instrument Corporation (1984–1985).[6]
Chang worked on a four-transistor project for TI where the manufacturing was done by IBM. This was one of the early semiconductor foundry relationships. Also at TI, Morris pioneered the then controversial idea of pricing semiconductors ahead of the cost curve, or sacrificing early profits to gain market share and achieve manufacturing yields that would result in greater long-term profits.[citation needed]
After he left General Instrument Corporation, Sun Yun-suan recruited him to become chairman and president of the Industrial Technology Research Institute[7]. As head of a government-sponsored non-profit, he was in charge of promoting industrial and technological development in Taiwan. Chang founded TSMC in 1987, the beginning of the period where firms increasingly saw value in outsourcing their manufacturing capabilities to Asia. Soon, TSMC became one of the world's most profitable chip makers. Chang left ITRI in 1994 and became chairman of Vanguard International Semiconductor Corporation from 1994 to 2003 while continuing to serve as chairman of TSMC. In 2005, he handed TSMC's CEO position to Rick Tsai.[8]
In June 2009, Chang returned to the position of TSMC's CEO once again.[9] On June 5, 2018, Chang announced his retirement, succeeded by C.C. Wei as CEO and Mark Liu as chairman.[10][11] Chang was awarded the Order of Propitious Clouds, First Class in September 2018.[12]
In 2018, Chang was appointed as the Presidential Envoy of Republic of China (Taiwan) to APEC.[13] This is his second time serving, the first time being in 2006.

TITLE: Kurtwood Smith
Kurtwood Larson Smith (born July 3, 1943) is an American television and film actor. He is known for playing Clarence Boddicker in RoboCop (1987) and Red Forman in That '70s Show, as well as for his many appearances in science fiction films and television programs (Star Trek, The X-Files). He also starred in the seventh season of 24.
Smith was born in New Lisbon, Wisconsin, the son of Mabel Annette Lund (née Larson) and George Smith.[1] Smith's father was a Major during the Second World War and was killed in Europe.[2] Smith's mother was a fan of a country singer named Kurt (or Curt) in the early 1940s. However, she thought "Kurt Smith" was too short a name, so she added "wood" ("she just tacked it on to the end", he said). Smith has said that he is likely the only Kurtwood.[3] Smith grew up in the San Fernando Valley and graduated from Canoga Park High School of Canoga Park, California in 1961; he was class president in his senior year.[1] Smith graduated from San Jose State University in 1965 with a B.A. and Stanford University in 1969 with an MFA.[4]
On stage, Smith won three Drama-Logue Awards for his performances in Billy Budd, Idiot's Delight, and Green Grow the Lilacs. In his film career, he portrayed Clarence Boddicker in Paul Verhoeven's science fiction action movie RoboCop and the father role as Red Forman on the Fox sitcom That '70s Show, which ran from 1998 to 2006. After That '70s Show ended, Smith played Senator Blaine Mayer in the seventh season of the action thriller 24, and portrayed Dick Clayton in the CBS series Worst Week. He enjoyed a recurring role as a rogue FBI agent in Seasons 3–5 of the NBC (later CBS) series Medium, appearing in later episodes as a ghost after his character's death. He played the main character Henry Langston in the ABC sci-fi/drama Resurrection which ran for two seasons (2014–15). Currently, he is a regular on the Amazon original dramedy series Patriot.
His other roles included playing Mr. Sue on Fox's "espionage comedy" The New Adventures of Beans Baxter from 1987 to 1989. He also starred as the strict father of Robert Sean Leonard's Neil in 1989's Dead Poets Society. He made a number of appearances in the Star Trek franchise, playing the President of the Federation in Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country, a Cardassian named Thrax in the Star Trek: Deep Space Nine episode "Things Past", and a Krenim scientist named Annorax in the Star Trek: Voyager episode "Year of Hell".
He also has an extensive voice acting résumé, appearing in computer games such as Fallout Tactics: Brotherhood of Steel, and FreeSpace 2, and on a number of animated series. He played a recurring role on the claymation series Gary & Mike as the vengeful Officer Dick and voiced the dinosaurian military commander character General Galapagos in the Savage Steve Holland produced Fox animated series Terrible Thunderlizards. He played the voice of Bob Johnson on Squirrel Boy and provided the voice of Kanjar Ro in Green Lantern: First Flight and starred as the sheriff in Last of the Dogmen. Smith appeared on the Netflix show The Ranch as Mr. Peterson, a farmer dying of brain cancer.
Smith married Cecilia Souza in 1964. The couple divorced in 1974. Smith then married Joan Pirkle, who appeared with him in Robocop, in 1988. She played the secretary of Jones. Smith has one daughter, Laurel Garner, and one son, Shannon Smith. Smith lives in Lafayette, California.

TITLE: Sabeer Bhatia
Sabeer Bhatia (born 30 December 1968)[3] is an Indian-American businessman who co-founded the webmail company Hotmail.com.[4]
Bhatia briefly worked for Apple Computer (as a hardware engineer) and Firepower Systems Inc. He, along with his colleague Jack Smith, set up Hotmail on 4 July 1996, American Independence Day, symbolizing "freedom" from ISP-based e-mail and the ability to access a user's inbox from anywhere in the world
As President and CEO, Bhatia led Hotmail until its eventual acquisition by Microsoft in 1998 for an estimated $400 million. Bhatia worked at Microsoft for one year after the Hotmail acquisition and in April 1999, left Microsoft to start another venture, Arzoo Inc, an e-commerce firm.[citation needed]
Bhatia started a free messaging service called JaxtrSMS. He said that JaxtrSMS would do to SMS what Hotmail did for e-mail. Claiming it to be a disruptive technology, he says that the operators will lose revenue on the reduction in number of SMSes on their network but will benefit from the data plan that the user has to buy.[5] To date, JaxtrSMS service has failed to replicate the success of Hotmail. Recently[when?], he invested in email collaboration software, ccZen.
[6][7][8] His father, Baldev Bhatia, was a captain in the Indian Army and his mother worked for the Central Bank of India.
Sabeer married Tanya Sharma in 2008 and they have a daughter together. Later, they filed for divorce in January 2013 in a court in San Francisco, citing "irreconcilable differences".

TITLE: Gary Mekikian
Gary Mekikian is an American entrepreneur and investor who is the co-founder and CEO of M&M Media Inc., a Los Angeles-based media technology company.  Prior to M&M Media, Mekikian also co-founded International Integration, Inc. also known as i-Cube; answerfriend, Inc., which became Inquira; and GATeIC, Inc.
In addition to business ventures, Mekikian has been a member of Pasadena Angels[2] and Tech Coast Angels,[3] nonprofit organizations that offer consultation and seed capital to startup businesses from successful entrepreneurs, marketing professionals, and business experts. Mekikian is a co-organizer of  LA2DC.org, a Los Angeles-based organization whose mission is to raise awareness of modern-day genocides and the Holocaust, and to eliminate genocide as a war tactic.
Mekikian has a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Southern California and an MS from Stanford University, and he holds patents in media technologies[4][5] and medical devices.[5][6] Mekikian is a member of Stanford University's Graduate School of Business MSx Alumni Advisory Board.[7] He collaborates with Stanford University professors Dr. William Barnett[8] and Dr. John Roberts[9] to write and teach case studies on entrepreneurship, information technology, semiconductor industry, and the mobile internet.
After attending Hollywood High School for two years, Mekikian earned an electrical engineering degree from University of Southern California and an MS from Stanford University.[10]
In 1993, after working at Hewlett-Packard Company as a sales engineer, Mekikian joined the founding team at the technology company International Integration Inc., also known as i-Cube, which went public in 1998.[10] i-Cube was acquired by Razorfish, Inc. in 1999.[11]
After the sale of i-Cube, Mekikian began working with Dr. Deniz Yuret, a researcher in Natural Language Processing at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Sundar Subramaniam, a co-founder of i-Cube, to found answerFriend, Inc., which developed commercialized web based question-answering technologies.[12] The company and its flagship product were covered by The Wall Street Journal[13] and CNN Money.[14] In 2002, answerFriend merged with another natural language processing technology company, Electric Knowledge, to form InQuira.[10] In 2011, Oracle Corporation acquired Inquira.[15]
In 2006, Mekikian co-founded GATeIC,[10][16] a semiconductor IP company, to develop algorithms and gate-level implementations for digital signal processing IC's commonly used in wireless base stations and other digital signal processing equipment. The company produced new IC designs that then licensed by semiconductor manufacturers like Maxim Integrated and Analog Devices.
In 2014, after a patent was issued on a new method of delivering and monetizing digital media on mobile and desktop devices,[4] Mekikian joined investors Adrian Sada Cueva and Ernesto Vargas; and colleagues Oscar De La Garza and Rodrigo Vargas; to co-found M&M Media, Inc., a digital music distribution company that released the Trebel Music app. The app is designed to reduce digital media piracy and deliver compensation to the artists by specifically targeting a demographic which uses piracy as a form of digital media acquisition.[17][18]
In 2015, the descendants of the Armenian Genocide around the world commemorated the 100 anniversary of the first genocide of the 20th century.[19]  Mekikian, along with a group of American-Armenians, organized an event called LA2DC,[20] a coast-to-coast, running and cycling, relay marathon. The mission of the event is to increase awareness of modern-day genocides, and to ask the US Congress and world powers to work together to stop genocides as a war tactic. Over a thousand athletes ran and cycled non-stop, from Los Angeles to Washington DC, to deliver a petition to Congress - a message of gratitude to Americans and others who worked to prevent genocides, and rescued the survivors. Mekikian and colleagues authored the petition[21] which was delivered in a relay baton to Congressman Adam Schiff who read it on the floor of the House of Representatives on May 20, 2015.[22]

TITLE: Helen Quinn
Helen Rhoda Arnold Quinn (born 19 May 1943 in Melbourne)[1] is an Australian-born particle physicist and educator who has made major contributions to both fields. Her contributions to theoretical physics include the Peccei-Quinn theory which implies a corresponding symmetry of nature[2] (related to matter-antimatter symmetry and the possible source of the dark matter that pervades the universe) and contributions to the search for a unified theory for the three types of particle interactions (strong, electromagnetic, and weak). As Chair of the Board on Science Education of the National Academy of Sciences, Quinn led the effort that produced A Framework for K-12 Science Education: Practices, Crosscutting Concepts, and Core Ideas[3]—the basis for the Next Generation Science Standards adopted by many states. Her honours include the Dirac Medal of the International Center for Theoretical Physics, the Oskar Klein Medal from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, appointment as an Honorary Officer of the Order of Australia, the J. J. Sakurai Prize for Theoretical Particle Physics from the American Physical Society, the Karl Taylor Compton Medal for Leadership in Physics from the American Institute of Physics, and the 2018 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Physics from the Franklin Institute.
Quinn grew up in Australia and graduated in 1959 from Tintern Grammar, Tintern Church of England Girls' Grammar School,[4] in Ringwood East, Victoria, Australia. She began college at the University of Melbourne before moving to the United States and transferring to Stanford University. She received her PhD from Stanford in 1967, at a time when less than 2% of physicists were women. She did her postdoctoral work at the DESY (the German Synchrotron Laboratory) in Hamburg, Germany. She next spent seven years at Harvard University before returning to Stanford, where she became a professor of physics at the Stanford Linear Accelerator Laboratory (SLAC). She retired in 2010[5] and devoted her efforts to education, especially K-12 and preschool science and multilingual education. She and her husband raised two children and have three grandchildren.[6]
Working with Howard Georgi and Steven Weinberg, Quinn showed[7] how the three types of particle interactions (strong, electromagnetic, and weak), which look very different as we see their impact in the world around us, become very similar in extremely high-energy processes and so might be three aspects of a single unified force.
With Roberto Peccei, she originated Peccei-Quinn theory, which suggested a possible near-symmetry of the universe (now known as Peccei–Quinn symmetry)[2] to explain how strong interactions can maintain CP-symmetry (the symmetry between matter and antimatter) when weak interactions do not. One consequence of this theory is a particle known as the axion which has yet to be observed but is one candidate for the dark matter that pervades the universe.
She showed how the physics of quarks can be used to predict certain aspects of the physics of hadrons (which are particles made from quarks) regardless of the details of the hadron's structure (with Enrico Poggio and Steven Weinberg).[8] This useful property is now known as quark-hadron duality.
She has given public talks in various countries on "The Missing Antimatter", in which she suggests that this area of research is promising.
In 2001, she was elected to become President of the American Physical Society for the year 2004. She was the fourth woman to be elected to the APS presidential line in the Society's 102-year history.[9]
Quinn has had a long term engagement in education issues.[4] She was a cofounder and the first president of the Contemporary Physics Education Project, and helped design its first product, the chart of Fundamental Particles and Interactions that appears on many schoolhouse walls next to the periodic table chart. CPEP received the 2017 "Excellence in Physics Education Award" from the American Physical Society, "for leadership in providing educational materials on contemporary physics topics to students for over 25 years."[10]
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences (NAS) while she was a staff member at SLAC;[11][12] she was soon made a full Professor of Physics at Stanford. As a member of NAS, she joined the Board on Science Education of the National Research Council and has served on a number of its studies. She served as Chair of this Board for the years 2009-14.
After retiring from Stanford, she spent her full effort on education. She planned and led the work of the NRC study committee that produced A Framework for K-12 Science Education[3] to guide the development of multi-state standards for science education.  These "Next Generation Science Standards" were released in final form in April, 2013. NGSS has been officially adopted by many states and the District of Columbia. Since the release of the Framework, she has worked to support the ongoing process of development, adoption, and implementation of the NGSS.[13][14][15] With Okhee Lee and Guadalupe Valdez, she studied the opportunities for teaching English to English language learners in the context of NGSS.[16]
In 2015, the President of Ecuador appointed her as a member of the board (Comision Gestora) charged with leading the new National University of Education.[17]
Her professional career is as follows:[1][4]

TITLE: Jeongdo Hong
Jeongdo Hong (born November 11, 1977) is the president and CEO of JoongAng Media Network (JMnet),[1] the largest media group in South Korea with 23 subsidiary companies and 24 brands including newspapers, TV channels, magazines, a multiplex cinema chain, and leisure resorts. Hong is also the President and CEO of JTBC,[2] the fastest-growing general programming channel in South Korea since he founded it in December 2011. He is concurrently the President and CEO of the JoongAng Ilbo,[3] a major national newspaper in South Korea.
Hong studied history at Yonsei University in Seoul, South Korea, and received a bachelor's degree in Economics from Wesleyan University and his MBA from Stanford University, both in the United States.
Since Hong joined the JoongAng media group in 2005 as a member of the Strategic Planning Office, he has developed overall corporate strategies for the group. He played a crucial role in one of JMnet's most important projects, which also marked a key chapter in South Korea's recent media history. It was the regaining of broadcasting rights for TBC (Tongyang Broadcasting Company), South Korea's most popular channel in the 1960s and 70s, which was confiscated from the JoongAng media group by a military government in 1980. After years of work and preparation, the nationwide TV channel JTBC was finally launched in December 2011.
JTBC has been growing rapidly since its launch. The channel, which offers news, documentaries, dramas and a variety of entertainment programs, has been named in a viewer survey as the most balanced and informative channel for two consecutive years. It is setting new standards for dramas and entertainment programs. Popular JTBC programs such as Non-Summit and Please Take Care of My Refrigerator are broadcast around the world through the sale of broadcast rights to overseas networks.
Hong has also led a sub-branding strategy to strengthen JTBC's brand, creating synergies as a result. In addition to JTBC, the flagship general programming channel, there is also JTBC2, the entertainment channel formerly known as QTV, and JTBC3 Fox Sports, a partnership with Fox International Channels Asia. J Golf was relaunched as JTBC Golf in 2015.
Another highlight of Hong's work was in 2009, when he led the JoongAng Ilbo's ambitious project to switch the paper's printing format to Berliner, the first such innovative change in all of Asia. In 2011, Hong headed the successful merger and acquisition of two major movie theater franchises, Megabox and Cinus. The acquisitions strengthened JMnet's position in the entertainment industry.
Hong is a member of the WAN-IFRA (World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers) Asia Pacific Committee. He was named a World Economic Forum Young Global Leader in 2010. He also joined WEF's Global Agenda Council.

TITLE: Scott Fox (author)
Scott Fox is an American financial and self-help author, specializing in entrepreneurship and startup company advice.  He is a serial Internet entrepreneur, startup advisor, media personality, and angel investor.  Founder of the OC Startup Council, the Click Millionaire’s MasterMinds Forum at ClickMillionaires.com, and RadioGuestList.com among many other niche website businesses, Fox is best known for his books which have been translated into many languages worldwide.  These include Internet Riches: The Simple Money-making Secrets of Online Millionaires, E-Riches 2.0, and Click Millionaires:  Work Less, Live More with an Internet Business You Love.
Fox grew up in inner-city Detroit [1]  where he graduated from Cass Technical High School. He received his bachelor's degree in Management from the University of Michigan before being recruited to New York by JP Morgan & Company.  He began his career as an investment banker on Wall Street. He then returned to school, earning a Juris Doctorate law degree in Intellectual Property from Stanford University and attending the Stanford Graduate School of Business in the 1990s.[2] He spent some time as a lawyer and CFO in the entertainment industry, and some working on start-ups in Silicon Valley [3] before starting his own companies.  Today he is active as a community organizer for the startup ecosystem online and in Southern California as the CEO of the Orange County Startup Council, as well as an angel investor via Tech Coast Angels and startup advisor to early stage ventures worldwide.  
Scott Fox is the bestselling author of three books: Internet Riches, E-Riches 2.0, and Click Millionaires.[4] Each of these books is written to help new entrepreneurs use software, Internet marketing tools, and e-commerce to start an online business.[5]
In addition to being an author, Fox is an advisor and investor in startups, a serial start-up entrepreneur, an executive, and a podcaster. He has built multimillion-dollar e-businesses ranging from niche online ventures, to Silicon Valley venture capital-backed startups and Fortune 500 corporate web sites, to sites for celebrities like Bill O’Reilly and Larry King.[7]
The profits from Fox's books are donated to charity.[6]
Fox currently resides in California with his family.


TITLE: Matt Gonzalez
Matthew Edward Gonzalez (born June 4, 1965) is an American politician, lawyer, and activist. He served on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors from 2001 and 2005 and was president of the Board. In 2003, Gonzalez, running as a member of the Green Party, lost a close race for mayor of San Francisco to Democrat Gavin Newsom. In the 2008 presidential election, Gonzalez ran for vice president as the running mate of candidate Ralph Nader. As of 2011[update], he works as the Chief Attorney at the San Francisco Public Defender's Office.[1][2]
Matthew Edward Gonzalez was born in McAllen, Texas. His father, a division chief for the international tobacco company Brown & Williamson,[3] moved the family to New Orleans, Baltimore, and Louisville, Kentucky, before resettling in McAllen when Gonzalez was eleven years old. After graduating from McAllen Memorial High School, he attended Columbia University, from which he graduated in 1987. In 1990, he obtained a Juris Doctor degree from Stanford Law School.
Gonzalez began working as a trial lawyer at the Office of the Public Defender in San Francisco in 1991.
Gonzalez served one term on the San Francisco Board of Supervisors from 2001 to 2005. He was elected president of the board in 2003. After losing the mayoral election in 2003, he chose not to seek re-election.[4]
Gonzalez entered politics when he ran for San Francisco District Attorney in 1999. He campaigned to halt political corruption and marijuana prosecutions.[5] Gonzalez lost to incumbent Terence Hallinan. In a field of five candidates, he finished third with 20,153 votes (11 percent of the total).[6]
A system of electing supervisors by district rather than citywide took effect in 2000. At the urging of Supervisor Tom Ammiano, Gonzalez moved from his home in the Mission District to run for supervisor in newly made District 5.[7] In early November, shortly before the run-off election, Gonzalez switched party affiliations from the Democratic Party to the nascent Green Party.[8] His opponent, Juanita Owens, tried to capitalize on many Democrats' ill feelings toward the Green Party in the wake of Ralph Nader's involvement in the acrimonious 2000 presidential election,[9] but Gonzalez won the run-off election. He was part of a slate of candidates who wanted to change the direction of city policy, in opposition to the "Brown machine," a Democratic Party political machine that had dominated local politics for over 30 years behind Mayor Willie Brown, the Pelosi family, and other Democrats.[10] His supporters saw his election as a turning point in local politics.[11][12]
Gonzalez's critics considered him a stubborn and willful ideologue. When the Board put forth a resolution commending San Franciscan Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi for being elected House Minority Whip and being the first woman to hold that position, Gonzalez was the only board member who voted against it. Gonzalez said that supervisors should not issue commendations for winning partisan political positions and that he had written a personal note to Pelosi congratulating her, as she had done him for being elected board president.[13][14] Gonzalez refused to meet with Brown during his first two years on the Board of Supervisors, saying he did so to avoid being subject to Brown's influence rather than as a matter of disrespect.[15] Two sources reported that Gonzalez defied Brown by walking out of the mayor's State of the City address in 2002.[16][17] However, Gonzalez later told SF Weekly that he was never in attendance.[18]
In January 2003, Gonzalez was elected president of the Board of Supervisors after seven rounds of voting, most of which had Gonzalez vying for a majority vote with supervisors Aaron Peskin and Sophie Maxwell. When Peskin dropped out Gonzalez emerged the winner, counting among his supporters conservative Board member Tony Hall, who said when asked why he voted for Gonzalez, "Gonzalez is a man of integrity and intelligence who will carry out his responsibilities fairly and impartially."[19][20][21]
Gonzalez hosted monthly art exhibits in his City Hall office. At the last reception, graffiti artist Barry McGee spray-painted "Smash the State" on the walls of the office as part of his exhibit."[22] Gonzalez told the press that he knew his office would be repainted for the next occupant.
In August 2003, Gonzalez ran for mayor of San Francisco in a bid to replace outgoing two-term mayor Willie Brown.[23] On a ballot with nine candidates, Gonzalez finished second in the primary election on November 4 behind Gavin Newsom, a Democrat and fellow member of the Board of Supervisors who had been endorsed by Brown. Gonzalez received 19.6 percent of the total vote to Newsom's 41.9 percent.[24]  Because none of the candidates received a majority, a run-off election was held on December 9.
Gonzalez faced a difficult run-off election; only 3 percent of voters in San Francisco were registered to the Green Party, the party to which he belonged.[25] Although Gonzalez was endorsed by several key local Democrats, including five members of the Board of Supervisors, national Democratic figures, concerned about Ralph Nader's role in the 2000 presidential election, campaigned on Newsom's behalf.[26][27] Bill Clinton, Al Gore, Jesse Jackson, Dianne Feinstein, and Nancy Pelosi all campaigned for Newsom. Gonzalez said about his candidacy, "They're scared, not of a Green being elected mayor, but of an honest person being elected mayor."[28] Newsom won the runoff race by a margin of 11,000 votes, capturing 53 percent of the vote to Gonzalez's 47 percent.[29]
Following the mayoral contest, Gonzalez announced he would not seek re-election to the Board of Supervisors. He left office when his term ended in January 2005. He was succeeded by Ross Mirkarimi, a Green Party member and community activist who had also worked on Gonzalez's campaign.[30] Gonzalez then opened law offices with fellow Stanford University alum Whitney Leigh. In May 2005 Gonzalez sought unsuccessfully to overturn the contract of San Francisco school Superintendent Arlene Ackerman.[31] His law firm brought suit against a San Francisco hotel for not paying its workers the minimum wage;[32] two wrongful death suits against Sacramento police for using tasers; against the city of San Jose and Ringling Brothers Circus for interfering with free speech rights of protestors; and against Clear Channel in a naming rights dispute over the locally owned San Francisco Warfield Theatre. It has also been involved in examining the New Year's Eve attack on the Yale a cappella group The Baker's Dozen in Pacific Heights.[33]
In January 2008, Gonzalez, along with several other prominent Green Party members, launched Ralph Nader's 2008 Presidential Exploratory Committee to support a possible Nader candidacy.[34] On February 28, 2008, four days after announcing his presidential bid, Nader named Gonzalez as his running mate for the 2008 presidential election.[35]
Nader announced that he and Gonzalez would not seek the Green Party nomination but would run as independents. On March 4, 2008, Gonzalez announced that he had left the Green Party and had changed his voter registration to independent.[36] The change, he said, was to accommodate states, including Delaware, Idaho and Oregon, that did not allow members of political parties to run as independents.
On October 18, 2008 Gonzalez and Nader held a large protest on Wall Street following the passage of the Troubled Asset Relief Program.[37] Their opposition to the bailout was a key issue of the Nader/Gonzalez campaign, in contrast to the Democratic and Republican Party candidates who supported the bill.
Gonzalez participated in the third party vice-presidential debates, along with Constitution Party vice-presidential candidate Darrell Castle and Libertarian Wayne Allyn Root, held in Las Vegas, on November 2, 2008.[38] The event was hosted by Free and Equal.org and Free & Equal Elections (FREE), an organization of political parties, independent citizens and civic organizations formed to promote free and equal elections in the United States.[38]
Jeff Adachi appointed Gonzalez as Chief Attorney in the Public Defender's Office in February 2011.[1][2] In 2012, Gonzalez was criticized for taking a paid, month-long leave of absence to act as co-counsel for a corporation, Cobra Solutions, in its $16 million lawsuit against San Francisco. This was a violation of the San Francisco Public Defender's office rules of ethics, part of which states, "No employee may provide legal advice or legal representation...to any person or entity other than in the employee's official capacity."[39][40]
Gonzalez defended José Inez García Zárate in the Kate Steinle homicide trial. The trial received national media attention because the defendant was an undocumented immigrant who had previously been deported five times.[41] Zarate, 45, was found not guilty of assault with a firearm but was convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm. Zárate was sentenced to time already served.[42][43]


TITLE: Fuad El-Hibri
Fuad Hibri (born March 2, 1958) is a German-American businessman and philanthropist, and founder of Emergent BioSolutions.
Fuad El-Hibri was born in Hildesheim, Germany.[1] He spent his childhood equally in Europe and the Middle East before coming to the United States to get an economics degree from Stanford and an MBA from Yale.[5]
El-Hibri earned a master's degree in public and private management from Yale University and a bachelor's degree with honors in economics from Stanford University.
El-Hibri worked most of his career in the telecommunications industry. Between graduate school and working for BioPort and Emergent, he worked abroad, in countries including Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, Russia, Venezuela and El Salvador.[6]
El-Hibri served as president of Digicel from August 2000 to February 2005. He served as the president of East West Resources Corporation from September 1990 to January 2004.
He was a member of the senior management team of Speywood, LTD. in the United Kingdom and organized and directed the management buyout of Porton Products Ltd. El-Hibri reorganized Porton, and was advisor to the senior management team involved in the oversight of operations and served as a senior associate and resident project manager at Booz Allen Hamilton and as a manager of Citicorp in New York City (Mergers and Acquisitions), and in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia (Operations and Credit).
El-Hibri has been chairman of East West Resources Corporation, a venture capital and financial consulting firm, since June 1990. He served as the chairman of Digicel Holdings from August 2000 to October 2006. He serves as executive chairman of the board of Emergent BioDefense Operations Lansing Inc.
El-Hibri has been the Emergent BioSolutions board of directors executive chairman since April 2012. He was both the board chairman and the CEO of the company from 2004 to 2012.  He was the board chairman and CEO of BioPort Corporation from 1998 to 2004. Emergent acquired BioPort in 2004.[3]
His main role as the chairman of Emergent is to develop corporate strategy and mergers and acquisitions.[7]
After the 2001 anthrax attacks, some conspiracy theorists posted Internet websites that tried to imply that El-Hibri was connected to Osama Bin Laden and was connected to the anthrax attacks. USA Today interviewed El-Hibri in 2004 for an article about Muslim CEOs of companies helping to fight terrorism, and wrote, "El-Hibri calls the Web sites annoying and jokes that he's lucky to be in the vaccination business so that he can inoculate himself from the pain of accusers who can't be confronted."[1]
When El-Hibri was the CEO of BioPort (which eventually become Emergent BioSolutions[3]), BioPort recruited Admiral William Crowe, a former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to serve on the board of directors.[1]
El-Hibri received a number of leadership- and philanthropic-based awards and recognitions, including:[8]
In 2001, El-Hibri and his family started The El-Hibri Foundation (EHF) as a tribute to El-Hibri's father, Ibrahim El-Hibri.[9] The El-Hibri Foundation (EHF) is a philanthropic organization that empowers and equips Muslim leaders and their allies to build thriving, inclusive communities. EHF makes grants and implements innovative programs to provide resources and skills, forge collaborative relationships, and increase inclusion of and within American Muslim communities.
Its mission is to "support building an inclusive America by advancing peace and respect for diversity, inspired by the universally shared values of Islam." EHF "envisions a society where everyone can achieve the American Dream in a diverse and inclusive world." To work toward this goal, the foundation provides grants, gives awards and runs several programs.[10] The foundation awards an annual El-Hibri Peace Education Prize, as well as graduate scholarships. The El-Hibri Foundation is a 501(c)(3) charitable foundation.[11]
El-Hibri is currently the chairman of the foundation.[12]
The El-Hibri Foundation Peace Awards recognize three individuals each year who have demonstrated outstanding leadership in advancing inclusion, building capacity, and organizing communities for positive social change. The largest of the awards is the El-Hibri Peace Education Prize. It was established by the El-Hibri family in 2007, and awards $30,000 to leaders who have dedicated their lives to making outstanding contributions and demonstrating long-term leadership in building inclusive and socially just communities in the United States.
El-Hibri serves on the boards of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, International Biomedical Research Alliance, and National Health Museum. He also serves on the advisory boards of the Heifetz International Music Institute and Yale Healthcare Conference.[13]
El-Hibri's mother is a German Catholic, and his father is a Lebanese businessman.[1] As a child, he lived in Germany and Lebanon.[6] He became a U.S. citizen in 1999.[1]

TITLE: Petras Auštrevičius
Petras Auštrevičius (born 16 May 1963) is a Lithuanian liberal politician, diplomat, civil society activist, former member of Seimas, and since 2014, a member of the European Parliament.
In 1981, Auštrevičius graduated from Vilnius Secondary School No. 39. Afterwards, he continued his studies at Vilnius University in the Faculty of Economics, where he received a degree in Economics in 1986. He then worked as a Junior Research Fellow at the Institute of Economics, located at the Lithuanian Academy of Sciences, from 1988 to 1991. From 1992 to 1993, Auštrevičius pursued a diplomat-training program at the Hoover Institution at the University of Stanford in California.
From 1991 to 1992, Auštrevičius worked as a Senior Specialist and was the First Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Lithuania). He was subsequently appointed as the Head of the Nordic States Division for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, where he served from 1992 to 1993. In 1993, Auštrevičius became a Chargé d'Affaires ad Interim of the Republic of Lithuania to the Republic of Finland, a position he held until 1994. From 1994 to 1997, he served as Lithuania’s Ambassador to Finland, and at the age of 31, became the youngest ambassador in Lithuanian history.
Following this placement, he worked as Adviser to the Prime Minister on Foreign Policy. Auštrevičius then became the Director General for the European Committee under the Government of the Republic of Lithuania in 1998, after which he acted as Chancellor in the Office of the Government from 1999 to 2000.
In 2000, he was appointed as an Ambassador at Large at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Afterwards, in 2001, Auštrevičius worked as a Chief Negotiator for Lithuania’s Membership of the European Union.
From 2000 to 2003, he held the position of Director General at European Committee under the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, later serving as a lecturer at the Institute of International Relations and Political Science at Vilnius University from 2003 to 2004.
In 2004, Auštrevičius became a Deputy Chancellor of the Government for European Union Affairs.
During a span of ten years (2004-2014), Auštrevičius was a member of Seimas (Lithuanian Parliament), where he served three terms until his election to the European Parliament in 2014.[1]
Auštrevičius vigorously involved himself with Lithuanian foreign affairs and foreign policy fields, where he worked to develop Lithuania´s relations with the EU. Initially, he served as the Deputy Speaker of the Board of the Seimas, the Deputy Chair at Committee on European Affairs, and a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In addition to these positions, he acted as members of the Commission on the Problems of the Ignalina Nuclear Power Plant, the Commission for NATO Affairs, and the Conference of Chairs, also serving as Deputy Chair of the Seimas Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly.
Regarding his political affiliation, Auštrevičius was a member of the Liberal and Centre Union of Lithuania. However, in 2006, he co-founded the Liberals Movement of Lithuania, and from 2006 to 2008, served as its chairman.[1]
In the 2014 European elections, Auštrevičius was elected as a member of European Parliament, where he was appointed as vice-president of the ALDE (Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe) political faction for the period 2014-2017. He also serves on the Committee on Foreign Affairs (AFET), acts as a coordinator for ALDE in the Subcommittee on Human Rights (DROI), and is chairing the delegation for relations with Afghanistan. In addition to these positions, he is a substitute member for each the Committee on Regional Development (REGI), Committee of Inquiry to investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of Union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion (PANA), the Delegation to the EU-Moldova Parliamentary Cooperation Committee, and the Delegation to the Euronest Parliamentary Assembly.[2]
As a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Auštrevičius was charged with assessing the European Union Association Agreement with Moldova for the Parliament.[3]
In 2015, news media reported that Auštrevičius was included in a Russian blacklist of prominent people from the European Union who are not allowed to enter the country.[4][5]
Auštrevičius is the initiator and supporter of the public movement Knowledge Economy Forum and People for Animals.
In 2005, he co-founded and served as a president of a discussion Europos Klubas (English: European Club) at Seimas, founded Vilnius University Alumni Society of the Faculty of Economics.[citation needed]
In December 2014, Auštrevičius founded the EU Informal Group "Friends of European Ukraine" in the European Parliament. He is the current co-chair that represents the European Parliament, and chairs together with Ivanna Klympush-Tsintsadze and Ostap Semerak on the side of the Ukraine.

TITLE: Brian Witlin
Brian Witlin is an American businessman, designer, fine artist, and professor. He is a serial entrepreneur who has co-founded a number of tech companies including Leverworks, Shopwell, Golaces and has led Yummly as its CEO both before and after being acquired by Whirlpool in 2017.[1][2] Witlin participates as a lecturer at Stanford University's Hasso Plattner Institute of Design.[3]
Brian Witlin was raised near Chicago, Illinois.  He attended Glenbrook North High School.   Witlin graduated from Lehigh University with a bachelor's degree in business and economics.  He served two terms as class of 2001 President[4] and founded his first software company in his dorm room. Brian later completed his master's degree in Mechanical Engineering and Design at the Stanford University School of Engineering.[5][6] For his Master's thesis, Witlin Co-Founded RootPhi, a new product development incubator with partner Doug Patt.
Witlin's career began while a senior at Lehigh University.  He co-founded a custom software development company called Lever Works with Keith Schacht and Zach Kaplan.  In December 2001 Lever Works was sold to Leo Media for an undisclosed sum.[7]
While completing his master's degree in Mechanical Engineering and Design at the Stanford University School of Engineering, Witlin Co-Founded RootPhi,[8] a new product development incubator with partner Doug Patt.  The company's success and approach to portfolio innovation garnered media attention for Witlin.   On September 4, 2007, while in partnership with Timbuk2 making limited edition messenger bags out of RootPhi's Reclaim Brand recycled fabric, Timbuk2 and RootPhi received a Cease and Desist letter from TARGET for using the bullseye logo within the Reclaim fabric.  This fabric was utilized in a line of limited edition messenger bags manufactured by Timbuk2 (Lamitron Bags).[9]  This move by TARGET halted production of the recycled bags angering many and sparking controversy around copyright law and recycled and repurposed materials.[10]  Although the collaboration with Timbuk2 ended prematurely, RootPhi was able to successfully sell another of their incubated companies, GoLaces, LLC, a footwear accessory business to a publicly traded footwear company for an undisclosed amount in February 2008.
After the sale of Golaces, Brian, in conversation with founder David M. Kelley, joined global design firm IDEO as Entrepreneur in Residence in June 2008. He co-founded a personalized nutrition app, Shopwell that provides healthy food recommendations for users, based on their unique dietary needs.[11] The company raised venture funding from New Venture Partners and IDEO. He led a team of engineering and registered dietitians to create the first personalized nutrition scoring algorithm leveraging machine learning and dietetics.[12][13] Shopwell was acquired by HarvestMark in 2013, which was again acquired by Innit in 2016.[14][15]
In 2009, Witlin was appointed as a head of mobile & platform of the personalized recipe recommendations and search platform, Yummly by their board of directors. He handled day-to-day operations and opened its API to other companies as a paid service. By 2014, it has 15 million active users in the US and was named "Best of 2014" in Apple's App Store.[16] He became the chief executive officer of the company in October 2016. Under his leadership, Yummly grew from 1M to 27M registered users, before acquired by the appliance manufacturer Whirlpool in 2017 for an undisclosed amount.[17][18]
Witlin speaks frequently at conferences and industry events on the topics of artificial intelligence, marketing automation and user growth, such as SXSW, Growth Beat, VentureBeat Webinars, Smart Kitchen Summit and Health 2.0 conferences.[19] He has also participated in the design forums and has given lectures at the Hasso Plattner Institute of Design.
Witlin holds 8 patents that are registered in his name.[20] He is the current advisor of startups, including Directly, Zeel and Upside, and has also served as an advisor 500 Startups, StartX, and the Designer Fund earlier.[21] He is also the founder of Diamond MMA, a premium martial arts protective equipment manufacturer[22] and an Apple Watch band company, Archr.co. Apart from business, Witlin is also a trained fine art artist and photographer. He is also a lecturer at the Stanford University's at Hasso Plattner Institute of Design, where he runs executive education programs and coaches students about entrepreneurship.[23]


TITLE: James Paul Gee
James Gee (/dʒiː/; born April 15, 1948) is a retired American researcher who has worked in psycholinguistics, discourse analysis, sociolinguistics, bilingual education, and literacy. Gee most recently held the position as the Mary Lou Fulton Presidential Professor of Literacy Studies at Arizona State University,[1] originally appointed there in the Mary Lou Fulton Institute and Graduate School of Education. Gee has previously been a faculty affiliate of the Games, Learning, and Society group at the University of Wisconsin–Madison[2] and is a member of the National Academy of Education.[3]
James Paul Gee was born in San José, California. He received his B.A. in philosophy from the University of California at Santa Barbara and both his M.A. and Ph.D in linguistics from Stanford University. He started his career in theoretical linguistics, working in syntactic and semantic theory, and taught initially at Stanford University and later in the School of Language and Communication at Hampshire College in Amherst, Massachusetts. After doing some research in psycholinguistics at Northeastern University in Boston and at the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in the Netherlands, Prof. Gee's research focus switched to studies on discourse analysis, sociolinguistics, and applications of linguistics to literacy and education. He went on to teach in the School of Education at Boston University, where he was the chair of the Department of Developmental Studies and Counseling, and later in the Linguistics Department at the University of Southern California. At Boston University he established new graduate programs centered around an integrated approach to language and literacy, combining programs in reading, writing, bilingual education, ESL, and applied linguistics. From 1993 to 1997 he held the Jacob Hiatt Chair in Education in the Hiatt Center for Urban Education at Clark University in Massachusetts. From 1997 until 2007, he held the Tashia Morgridge Professor of Reading at the University of Wisconsin–Madison.[4][5] In 2007, Gee relocated to Arizona State University, where he was the Mary Lou Fulton Presidential Professor of Literacy Studies in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction.
In 2019, Gee retired.
In his work in social linguistics, Gee explored the concept of Discourse ("big D" Discourse). In Gee's work, discourse ("little d") refers to language-in-use. When discussing the combination of language with other social practices (behavior, values, ways of thinking, clothes, food, customs, perspectives) within a specific group, Gee refers to that as Discourse.[6][7] Individuals may be part of many different Discourse communities, for example “when you ‘pull-off’ being a culturally specific sort of ‘everyday’ person, a ‘regular’ at the local bar...a teacher or a student of a certain sort, or any of a great many other ‘ways of being in the world’” (p. 7).[8]
Furthermore, being able to function within a Discourse may carry advantages in different situations. For example, if a person is raised in a family of lawyers, the Discourses of politics or business may come very easily to that person. In the United States, those are all Discourses of power and they are closely related. Another person raised in a very different Discourse community might find himself or herself at a disadvantage when trying to move within the Discourse of business, trying to get a loan, for instance. One Discourse community is not inherently better than another; however, power within a society may be unequally represented within different Discourses.
In Gee's view, language is always used from a perspective and always occurs within a context. There is no 'neutral' use of language. Meaning is socially constructed within Discourse communities.
Gee's 1999 text An Introduction to Discourse Analysis: Theory and Method[9] is a foundational work in the field of discourse analysis.
According to Gee,[10] there are at least two reasons why we should consider literacy in broader terms than the traditional conception of literacy as the ability to read and write. First, in our world today, language is by no means the only communication system available. Many types of visual images and symbols have specific significances, and so “visual literacies” and literacies of other modes, or the concept of multimodal literacy, are also included in Gee's conception of new literacies.[10] Second, Gee proposes that reading and writing (the ‘meat’ of literacy according to the traditional notion of the term) are not such obvious ideas as they first appear. “After all,” he states, “we never just read or write; rather, we always read or write something in some way”.[11] In other words, according to which type of text we read there are different ways in which we read depending on the “rules” of how to read such a text. Literacy to Gee, even if it is the traditional print-based literacy, should be conceived as being multiple, or comprising different literacies, since we need different types of literacies to read different kinds of texts in ways that meet our particular purposes in reading them.
Furthermore, Gee also argues that reading and writing should be viewed as more than just “mental achievements” happening inside people's minds; they should also be seen as “social and cultural practices with economic, historical, and political implications”.[12] So, in Gee's view, literacies are not only multiple but are inherently connected to social practices. In order to expand the traditional view of literacy as print literacy, Gee recommends that we think first of literacy in terms of semiotic domains. By this, he means “any set of practices that recruits one or more modalities (e.g., oral or written language, images, equations, symbols, sounds, gestures, graphs, artifacts, etc.) to communicate distinctive types of meanings”.[13] There is a seemingly endless and varied range of semiotic domains, including (but certainly not limited to) cellular biology, first-person-shooter video games, rap music, or modernist painting. Most pundits would describe this conception of literacies as a key element in what has come to be known as the New Literacy Studies. In short, this theoretical and methodological orientation emphasizes studying language-in-use and literacies within their contexts of social practice. It includes work by colleagues such as Brian Street, Gunther Kress, David Barton, Mary Hamilton, Courtney Cazden, Ron Scollon, and Suzie Scollon, among others.
Gee's current work in the field of new literacies has seen him shift in his research focus somewhat from studying language-in-use to examining the D/iscourses of a range of new social practices—with a particular emphasis on video games and learning. Gee applies many key concepts from his previous research to studying video games. For example, Gee continues to argue that if we take reading to mean gaining understanding (instead of simply decoding letter sounds and words), one needs to be able to recognize or produce meanings inherent to any one semiotic domain in order to be literate in that domain. As such, and as Gee sets out in his text What Video Games Have to Teach Us About Learning and Literacy, one can be literate in the semiotic domain of video games if he or she “can recognize (the equivalent of “reading”) and/or produce (the equivalent of “writing”) meanings” in the video game domain.[13] Therefore, because new literacies are multiple and attached to social and cultural practices, Gee explains that people need to (1) be literate in many different  semiotic domains, and (2) be able to become literate in other *new* semiotic domains throughout their lives.[10] This theoretical orientation aligns with work in the broad field of "new literacies" research—by colleagues such as Colin Lankshear, Michele Knobel, Henry Jenkins, Kevin Leander, Rebecca Black, Kurt Squire, and Constance Steinkuehler, among others.
More recently, Gee's work has focused on the learning principles in video games and how these learning principles can be applied to the K-12 classroom.[10] Video games, when they are successful, are very good at challenging players. They motivate players to persevere and simultaneously teach players how to play. Gee began his work in video games by identifying thirty-six learning principles that are present in - but not exclusive to - the design of good video games.[10] Gee argues for the application of these principles in the classroom. Gee's video game learning theory includes his identification of twelve basic learning principles.  He identifies these as: 1)Active Control, 2) Design Principle, 3) Semiotic Principle, 4) Semiotic Domain, 5) Meta-level Thinking, 6) Psychosocial Moratorium Principle, 7) Committed Learning Principle 8) Identity Principle, 9) Self-knowledge Principle, 10) Amplification of Input Principle, 11) Achievement Principle, 12) Practice Principle, 13) Ongoing Learning Principle, 14) Regime of Competence Principle.[14]
Gee condenses and clusters these principles even more closely in an article [15] following the publication of his video games and learning book.   Gee believes good education involves “applying the fruitful principles of learning that good game designers have hit on, whether or not we use a game as a carrier of these principles" (p. 6).  Thus, Gee organizes the condensed list of good learning principles in three student-centered, classroom-friendly clusters: “Empowered Learners; Problem Solving; Understanding" (p. 6).[15]
Under Empowered Learners, Gee includes the learning principles of “co-design,” “customize,” “identity,” and “manipulation and distributed knowledge.”  These principles incorporate the idea that an engaged student is active in designing and customizing their own learning experience, can learn by taking on new identities (e.g. in explore career paths or specialized skill sets in simulated roles), and feels “more expanded and empowered when they can manipulate powerful tools in intricate ways that extend their area of effectiveness" (p. 8).[15]
The Problem Solving category includes the learning principles of “well-ordered problems,” “pleasantly frustrating,” “cycles of expertise,” “information ‘on demand’ and ‘just in time,’” “fish tanks,” “sandboxes,” and “skills as strategies.”   In these first three principles, Gee argues, the scaffolding and ordering of problems learners face is key in keeping them right at their Zone of Proximal Development in different levels of skill-building.  For each of these levels, Gee specifies key elements (present in the latter four learning principles): carefully prioritized information, relevant and applicable facts, and a set of related skills with which to construct strategies in a safe and authentic context.[15]
In Gee's cluster of Understanding principles, he includes “system thinking,” and “meaning as action image.”  In “system thinking”, students have an overview of their learning context as a distinct system with its own naturally reinforced set of behaviors and embedded values.  Here, the meanings of words and concepts become clear – not through “lectures, talking heads, or generalities" (p. 14) – but through the experiences the players/students have (“meaning as action image”).[15]
Gee's other principles as found on page 64 of his 2007 book, What Video Games have to Teach us about Learning and Literacy, are: "Psychosocial Moratorium" principle, Committed Learning Principle, Identity Principle, Self-Knowledge Principle, Amplification of Input Principle, and Achievement Principle. Additionally, in the book on page 68, Gee further lists the Practice Principle, Ongoing Learning Principle, and the "Regime of Competence" Principle.
James Gee defines identity as: “Being recognized as a certain ‘kind of person,’ in a given context...” (p.99).[16] Gee talks of identity differences based on social and cultural views of identity and identifies four of these views, each of which are influenced by different forms of power, though they all have an effect on one another. Gee describes them as “four ways to formulate questions about how identity is functioning for a specific person (child or adult) in a given context or across a set of contexts” (p. 101).[16]
The first of Gee's identity perspectives is what he calls “the nature perspective (or N-identities)” (p. 101).[16] N-identity represents an identity people cannot control, one that comes from forces of nature. An example of this type of identity would be male or female. While the person has no control over the sex they were born with, this identity only means something because society and culture say this biological difference is important.[16] Gee explains this idea further by stating, “N-identities must always gain their force as identities through the work of institutions, discourse and dialogue, or affinity groups, that is, the very forces that constitute our other perspectives on identity” (p. 102).[16]
“[T]he institutional perspective (or I-identities)” (p. 102) [16] refers to identities set by authorities within an institution. An example of an I-identity is a student, whose identity is defined by the school as an institution with rules and traditions the student must follow. Gee claims these I-identities can be something imposed on a person, such as being a prisoner, or can be a calling for the person, such as being a college professor.[16]
The third perspective Gee identifies is the “discursive perspective (or D-identities)” (p. 103).[16] D-identity refers to an individual trait, such as caring. D-identities are a matter of social interaction that only become identities because “other people treat, talk about, and interact” with the person in ways that bring forth and reinforce the trait (p. 103).[16] According to Gee “D-identities can be placed on a continuum in terms of how active or passive one is in ‘recruiting’ them, that is, in terms of how much such identities can be viewed as merely ascribed to a person versus an active achievement or accomplishment of that person” (p. 104).[16]
The final identity perspective Gee identifies is the “affinity perspective (or A-identities)” (p. 105).[16] A-identities are built by shared experiences as part of an affinity group, which according to Gee's definition is a group that share “allegiance to, access to, and participation in specific practices” (p. 105).[16] Joining these groups must be something the person has chosen to do and feels a part of in order for the A-identity to be built. Gee explains this further by stating, “While I could force someone to engage in specific practices, I really cannot coerce anyone into seeing the particular experiences connected to those practices as constitutive (in part) of the ‘kind of person’ they are” (p. 106).[16]

TITLE: Monis Rahman
Monis Rahman is a Pakistani internet entrepreneur, venture capitalist and businessman.[1] Rahman is the co-founder and executive chairman of Naseeb Networks, Inc.[2] a business-oriented social network used primarily for online job recruiting.[3]  Rahman has been listed among the top entrepreneurs of 21st century several times.[4] Forbes named him at #6 on its list of top "Ten Big Hitting Asian Businessmen under 50".[5]
Rahman was born in Karachi, Sindh, Pakistan.[citation needed] He spent his childhood in Saudi Arabia and the United States, due to his father's job as an urban-planning advisor for the United Nations. Rahman attended Saudi Arabian International School in Riyadh, received his B.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering from University of Wisconsin–Madison, and graduated with an M.S. in Computer Engineering from Stanford University. During his studies Rahman wrote six patents, of which five were officially published.
After completing his studies at Wisconsin, Rahman went to work at Intel. With the Intel team, he developed an Itanium microprocessor chip between 1991 and 1996 and left the job after looking at the dot-com bubble rise in order to start his own company. In 1997, Rahman and a partner started a company that installed cameras in daycare centers, allowing parents to watch the video streams online in real time. Edaycare.com attracted $2.5 million from investors, including Ron Conway, an early stage investor of Google and PayPal. A year later Rahman and his partner ran out of money, forcing them to sell the company for stock that was beneficially worthless.
After a hiatus of four years and working as a consultant, Rahman decided to start a social networking site for Muslims in the United States and United Kingdom, after looking at the success of similar website Friendster.com. He named it "Naseeb.com" (meaning "destiny"). Built as a social site, it was considered more of match-making portal, but Rahman said, "I decided not to go head-on as a matchmaking site... 'Dating' has a negative stigma from a Muslim viewpoint."[6] Naseeb.com was then invested in by LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman with $25,000, while Mark Pincus of Zynga and Joe Kraus of Excite also stepped in as angel investors.
Describing the inspiration behind Naseeb, Rahman said, "I was exploring the Pakistani market since my family had moved here. I realized that the biggest cost in running a web company was of human capital. And the running cost in Pakistan would have been 1/18th of what it would have been in the US. So that's when I decided to come back and start Naseeb.com, which exploded very quickly. We were the first one to be doing any kind of serious business on the internet back then. And we had little to no competition in the market."[7]
In 2002, Rahman returned to Pakistan and registered his company as Naseeb Networks, Inc., both in Lahore, Pakistan, and in San Jose, California, US, to make it easier to raise money and investors. He spent $60,000 as a startup cost for Naseeb and initially handled the company on his own. To prime the market, he used equity in the company to buy the electronic greeting card site eidmubarak.com, which allow Muslims to send cards for Eid, a Muslim holiday. Three thousand people from the site's 1-million-strong mailing list signed up immediately. Annual memberships cost $40, and by 2005 the website was generating $300,000 in revenue.[8]
With the expansion of company Rahman needed programmers and developers, and buying ads in local newspapers was expensive. He recalls, "I started Naseeb.com from my house, but later moved out as we grew. Now when hiring, I ran into a lot of problems finding the right talent. At that time, one job ad in the classified section in Dawn News, roughly cost PKR 850,000 which was ridiculous! So I decided to put my ads online."[7]
In 2005, Rahman built a "quick and dirty" job site to post job openings for his parent company Naseeb Networks. Many other companies contacted Rahman to post their companies' and products' ads on his website. Rahman agreed to post their ads free of cost to help boost Naseeb's traffic.[8] After receiving such a reception, the website became the primary business of Naseeb Networks.[9]
Rahman then offered the largest companies the ability to search for résumés, as well as software to power their own companys' job boards and the right to post their logos on the front page of his new site. He named it "Rozee", an Urdu language word which means "livelihood", or translates roughly as "blessed livelihood."[8]
In 2007 Rozee.pk went into a completely functioning state, generating more traffic than Naseeb. Rahman used Naseeb's proceeds, and $2 million from Draper Fisher Jurvetson and ePlanet Ventures, to hire salespeople to go after large corporate clients, most of which still advertised job openings in newspapers. More than 63 000 companies actively post openings on Rozee.pk, paying between $29 for a single ad and up to $20,000 for a suite of services.[8]
Rozee.pk has been listed as the number one employment website in Pakistan, with more than 65 thousand companies posting jobs, 32.53 million applications processed and 6 million unique visitors every day. In 2015, Rozee.pk won $6.5 million of investment from Vostok Nafta and Piton Capital, bringing the company's total venture capital funding to $8.5 million.[10]
In an interview Rahman stated, "As talent continues to move online at a rapid pace in emerging markets, businesses need increasingly sophisticated recruiting technology customized to nuanced local market dynamics."[11]
It was the latest in a series of large venture capital investments in Pakistan over the previous year and a half.[12] Managing director Per Brilioth said, "We are excited to partner with Naseeb Networks and impressed with what Rahman and his team have achieved in Pakistan and Saudi Arabia... We believe these markets present massive growth opportunities and are looking forward to working with the team to expand the reach of Naseeb Networks' world-class products and services."[13] Michael Porter of AllWorld Network listed the company as one of Pakistan's fastest growing private companies.[14] American writer Elmira Bayrasli visited Pakistan in 2010 to assess the entrepreneurial potential of the country and listed Rahman as an "example to entrepreneurs" in her 2015 book, From the Other Side of the World. She claimed that the "next Silicon Valley could be in Lahore, Mumbai or Istanbul."[15]
In 2011, Rahman launched a location-based online shopping portal that features "local daily deals and listings for the most affordable things to do, place to eat, and brands to buy" in cities throughout Pakistan.[16] Rahman said, "Chalo is my experiment. We have hundreds of SMEs in Pakistan who can't afford to promote themselves on large platforms like newspapers, billboards, TV etc. We're helping them expand & grow through Chalo.pk... We're also experimenting with Maps. We spent 2 years building our own maps database, and now we have mapped every single house address in any planned society in Lahore. We’ve also mapped all the restaurants, their menus and other details in the app. So people can navigate to them really easily. If you want to watch a movie, we're listing all the movies being shown in all the cities, and soon we'll be adding a Buy button."[17]
In 2012, Rahman co-founded the Digital Publishers Association of Pakistan (DPAP), with several publications and portal owners including Masood Hamid (President), Monis Rahman (Vice President), Sarmad A. Ali (Member Executive Committee), Lucas Peter (Secretary General), Imran Ansari (Joint Secretary), Qudratullah Shahab (Member Executive Committee), and Sarah Sohail (Finance Secretary).[18][19] The association aims to "safeguard interests of all stakeholders in the burgeoning digital market and create a regulated playing field."[20]
In 2013, Rozee.pk bought Saudi employment website Mihnati.com for an undisclosed amount. Discussing the acquisition, Rahman said, "We have merged both Rozee.pk and Mihnati by migrating all Mihnati employers and jobseekers on to the Rozee.pk technology platform. By doing this, we gave our Saudi sales team a far more powerful product to sell with more features."[21]
After establishing himself, Rahman served as a head or partner of several technology firms in Pakistan including as a member of the Board of Directors at Kashf Microfinance Bank Limited  (2010-2012),[22] and of the Pakistan Advisory Board at Acumen Fund (2010-2013).[23] Currently he is a member of the Young Presidents' Organization (2010) Governing Board (CEC) at Pakistan Software Houses Association for IT and ITES (P@SHA) (2013),[24] Secretary General and founding member at Digital Publishers Association of Pakistan (DPAP),[18] and a member of the Global Board of Trustees (BoT) at The Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE, Lahore) (2012).
Rahman is regarded as one of the best entrepreneurs of the country. Many have listed him in their top ten lists of CEOs and entrepreneurs. In 2016, Rahman was listed among the top CEOs of Pakistan,[25] was placed at No. 6 among the Top 10 Most Influential Tech Leaders of Pakistan,[26] and was ranked at #3 among the "Top 5 E-commerce Business Tycoons of Pakistan".[27] Rahman is a TED speaker and is frequently invited to talk on entrepreneurship and Internet marketing at the world's top business schools and conferences.
In 2016, Rahman together with Qasif Shahid developed a digital mobile wallet to increase digital payments' scale rapidly. The mobile wallet is telco, bank and handset agnostic with the philosophy of inter-operating collaboratively with existing payment plumbing. It is jointly funded by Finca Microfinance Bank and the e-company Finja. In an interview Qasif said, "We believe banking products should look more like social networks than conventional banking products."  Rahman said, "Our mobile wallet's open API platform will allow much needed collaborative creativity from other FinTechs to be leveraged to create building blocks for a wider array of useful financial products."[28]

