The smell of fungus, humidity and cigarettes filled our nostrils and retrieved all the bad memories…
The door slams shut and the glass windows tremble for a couple seconds before silence takes over the small apartment that just lost one of its residents.
Five hour-long shoots and missed classes at school were my contribution to the family budget.
The expectation of stillness went beyond the cameras flashes and into everyday life: tight braids, obedient silence, and perfect cursive in homework assignments.
In Makove, boredom was my greatest enemy. I befriended two Carpathian goats and named all 65 of our geese.
Whenever it was my turn to debate, I found that I was more of a deer in the headlights than a person enjoying the spotlight.
Creamy mashed-potatoes come first to mind, with their fluffy hills of whipped-bliss gracing ones tongue so delicately.
Everything I saw on that mysterious screen - every button, every digit, every pixel - seemed a true magic, but instead of a wand, all I had was a computer mouse with every miracle being only one click away.
The start of a new school year always comes with excitement.
For me, the smell of my freshly cleaned school uniform after a long, hot Haitian summer usually sparked enthusiasm and got me daydreaming about starting a new grade.
When she wrapped her arms around him, the sweet staleness of tobacco enveloped her, and he was shivering.
Bill’s nose burned in the frigid air, and he squinted against the sun reflecting off the street.
Suzie felt for the bench with a white cane.
Leaves crunched beneath his feet.
She wore coveralls carried a plunger and metal toolbox, and wrenches of various sizes hung from a leather belt around her waist. “Point me to the head,” she said.
I barely touched my food, riveted by Tim. “Let me tell you another story,” he said.
He huddled under the covers, gripped the sheets, and held his breath as the wind brushed past the curtain.
The dry orange leaves crunched under my feet as I pulled the collar up on my coat.
Crunching hit my ears from behind, accelerating the already rampant pounding of my heart.
I met her at the town square, running in for our usual hug that carried on for far too long as we gushed about our lives with smiles lighting our faces.
She yawned.
Her stomach rumbles.
I can remember the smell of the turned earth, the plump shapes of bulbs held in the hands, fullness, the dry rustle of seeds through the fingers.
She had never entirely let go of the notion that if she reached far enough with her thoughts she might find someone waiting, that if two people were to cast their thoughts outward at the same moment they might somehow meet in the middle.
The street was very narrow and muddy, and the air was impregnated with filthy odours.
There were a good many small shops; but the only stock in trade appeared to be heaps of children, who, even at that time of night, were crawling in and out at the doors, or screaming from the inside.
The sole places that seemed to prosper amid the general blight of the place, were the public-houses…
Try as he might, he could do nothing but think about the questions he might be asked, the answers he would need to give, the way he would have to walk and talk and sit, the times he would need to speak or listen and nod, the things he would have to say or not say, the response he would need to give if asked about his legal status in the country.
They are people that she has heard grunting in the heat of sex (thin walls) and whose pubic hairs she has untangled from the shower plug, but she doesn’t know where they all came from before arriving here in this house, or what their favourite films are.
Within forty minutes, the voice inside my head was screaming, What have I gotten myself into?
Then the gas ahead of the bullet was heating the oxygen in the air to the point where the air caught fire.
There was a brief flash of flame and the bullet burst out through the exact center of it, spearing through the burned air at nineteen hundred miles an hour.
First thing out of the barrel of Reacher’s Barrett was a blast of hot gas.
The powder in the cartridge exploded in a fraction of a millionth of a second and expanded to a superheated bubble.
That bubble of gas hurled the bullet down the barrel and forced ahead of it and around it to explode out into the atmosphere.
Most of it was smashed sideways by the muzzle brake in a perfectly balanced radial pattern, like a donut, so that the recoil moved the barrel straight back against Reacher’s shoulder without deflecting it either sideways or up or down.
A thousandth of a second later, it was a yard away, followed by a cone of gunpowder particles and a puff of soot.
Another thousandth of a second later, it was six feet away, and its sound was bravely chasing after it, three times slower.
Then they peered into the palms of their thick callused hands spread out before them on the kitchen table and lastly they looked out the window toward the leafless and stunted elm trees.
